---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379"
published: 2025-12-16
episode_number: "379"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're all Misfits!

**[00:30]** So we're going to talk to you guys about kind of the decision-making process, how we adjusted

**[00:36]** throughout the year, what we learned, coach, athlete, probably there's some life lessons,

**[00:41]** human lessons in there as well.

**[00:43]** So we'll dig into that in a minute.

**[00:45]** We'll start with housekeeping here.

**[00:47]** This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[00:50]** You can head to GorillaMind.com and use the code word misfit or GorillaMind.com forward

**[00:55]** slash misfit and it will enter the code in for you.

**[00:58]** I would say the product of the week is still based on all of the moving and getting everything

**[01:04]** set up.

**[01:05]** My handy dandy gorilla mind energy drink right here actually has a bunch of new tropics in

**[01:11]** it.

**[01:12]** And maybe on this podcast, you'll be able to tell whether I do or don't have good word

**[01:16]** recall, but it's definitely been helpful for me, especially on long crazy programming days.

**[01:21]** And they are launching their new flavor red gummy fish.

**[01:26]** I'm guessing it's supposed to taste like a Swedish fish tomorrow.

**[01:29]** And if you want to try that out again, girl of mine.com, use the code word

**[01:33]** misfit something a little bit new here.

**[01:35]** We're actually having a few things that are new here on the podcast, just to try

**[01:39]** to, you know, kind of spice things up a little bit shout out of the week.

**[01:43]** And I think we have a really cool range of shout outs this week.

**[01:49]** So I'll go first.

**[01:50]** I believe today, correct me if I'm wrong page is the kind of the first

**[01:55]** official day for McKenna as someone who made a serious life change in the name of kind

**[02:02]** of going all in on something.

**[02:04]** So McKenna, for those who don't know, is my remote client.

**[02:08]** Two time semi-finals athlete was definitely in the running to make a real push last year.

**[02:14]** And then less than a week out from the open snapped her ankle coming down from the rope.

**[02:19]** Brutal.

**[02:20]** But if they made a remote client in a lab and delivered them to me, it's McKenna.

**[02:30]** Just hardworking, humble, but like has some of that fire that you need to kind of get

**[02:35]** into things.

**[02:36]** So just a really solid communicator and someone that I really enjoy working with and for her

**[02:42]** to go from a full time job to only work in a couple days a week and really put her eggs

**[02:47]** into this basket is...

**[02:49]** I just love that shit.

**[02:51]** It's just like, and she is, you know,

**[02:54]** to make it clear her goals are to compete

**[02:57]** at the CrossFit Games one day,

**[02:58]** but the barrier to entry for me to be all in

**[03:02]** is more about who she is and the way that she trains

**[03:05]** and the way that she communicates,

**[03:06]** the way that she treats people,

**[03:07]** the way that she just is as a human being.

**[03:09]** So big shout out to her for making that jump,

**[03:12]** making that leap because so many people, you know,

**[03:16]** wanna do something like that,

**[03:18]** whether it's at the forefront or buried in their subconscious.

**[03:21]** And you just think, you know, there's this life path that you're supposed to have.

**[03:25]** And I got to do this and I got to do that.

**[03:27]** And maybe secondary shout out to Wyatt for, for being the kind of partner who

**[03:32]** like really supports that thing, which is just also the coolest thing ever.

**[03:36]** So yeah, shout out to both of them.

**[03:38]** That's hard to find in a partner for sure.

**[03:41]** Yeah.

**[03:42]** You know, I think I have the firsthand experience getting to be with

**[03:45]** McKenna at home for a while, a couple of years.

**[03:48]** And she's gotten to watch and see what it takes, you know, having watched me go to

**[03:53]** the games a couple of times and training with me.

**[03:56]** That's, you know, for me, it's a special thing to see her, you know, make this

**[04:00]** commitment to go full time.

**[04:02]** And her and I, you know, we have a lot of conversations about the fact that not many

**[04:07]** people are going to understand your choice to do this.

**[04:10]** And it's a very, you know, it's not a traditional route anymore.

**[04:14]** And I think that's just a reminder we need to keep giving our, you know, telling ourselves

**[04:18]** is, you know, life doesn't need to go that traditional route to find success.

**[04:22]** So I'm really excited for her.

**[04:24]** We've had a lot of talks about it and I'm glad she finally felt brave enough to make

**[04:29]** the choice for herself.

**[04:31]** It's exciting.

**[04:32]** Super exciting.

**[04:33]** Yes, I agree.

**[04:34]** Yeah.

**[04:35]** And then you got one page.

**[04:38]** Yeah, so in our Telegram, our Misfit community app,

**[04:42]** in one of our hatchet followers, her name is Caitlin Nolan.

**[04:46]** She posted a video in our hatchet thread

**[04:49]** and showing her very first ring muscle up.

**[04:55]** And to see her excitement and her tears,

**[05:00]** and I think for those that got to see it

**[05:03]** that are watching that video,

**[05:04]** can feel the energy behind it in the years of hard work

**[05:07]** it took to get to that point. So huge shout out to Caitlin, just a commitment to the process there.

**[05:16]** Love to see that. Yeah. And the reason why this is such a cool thing is, again,

**[05:21]** this barrier to entry that we're looking for at Misfit Athletics is that level of give a shit.

**[05:26]** And I always talk about it, hey, and I know the same's for you, Paige, like in telegram,

**[05:32]** email coach at MisfitAthletics.com, DMs, Misfit Athletics, Misfit Coach.

**[05:36]** Like if you follow our program and support what we do, I'm going to support you as an

**[05:42]** athlete above and beyond.

**[05:44]** And she's one of the people that takes advantage of that.

**[05:46]** She sends a lot of messages in telegram, she emails me and she just cares about getting

**[05:50]** better.

**[05:51]** She's in a PhD program right now.

**[05:53]** So obviously you can, I don't know, but I can imagine how challenging it would be to

**[05:58]** train, you know, as, as do as much dedicated training as she does and do a PhD program.

**[06:04]** So yeah, just the people that,

**[06:07]** because I really do believe we write the best programming

**[06:10]** in the world, but it can't just happen to you, right?

**[06:14]** I can't like print it out and slap you in the face with it.

**[06:17]** And then you're like, wow, you guys are the best.

**[06:19]** It's like, no, you're the one putting in the work.

**[06:21]** You're the one doing the thing.

**[06:22]** So the people that accept that are,

**[06:24]** I think the true misfits for sure.

**[06:26]** Yeah, I think from, you know,

**[06:28]** on the spectrum of just getting your first ring muscle up

**[06:32]** to someone like McKenna making a life change

**[06:34]** go full time competing, like I'd say, you know, they have the same mindset of I'm going

**[06:40]** to meet you halfway.

**[06:42]** Right?

**[06:43]** So just different, you know, abilities and different levels of competition that we're

**[06:47]** at.

**[06:48]** Like if you guys, you know, if you're willing to meet us halfway, we're willing to put in

**[06:51]** that work with you.

**[06:52]** And, you know, we want to see you guys succeed.

**[06:54]** So that's, it's just, it is cool to see the range of abilities we have in our program

**[06:59]** and that, you know, you can have someone making semi-finals to the games, to someone getting

**[07:04]** their first ring muscle up. So definitely a testament to the programming too.

**[07:11]** Training camp. We are going to be at CrossFit roots in Boulder, Colorado. You can find the

**[07:16]** tickets in the Lincoln bio on our Instagram where they're January 30th to February 1st,

**[07:22]** coaching staff, myself, Paige, Hunter and Caroline, um, all star staff. And we are like

**[07:29]** a couple of weeks out from the open at that point. And like six or seven weeks out from

**[07:33]** quarterfinals prep. And as we've talked about on the podcast recently, phase three is going to be

**[07:39]** six weekend to be in a room with us and your fellow misfits, like finishing up your open prep

**[07:47]** and going into the open and starting your quarterfinals prep. I don't think there is a better time

**[07:52]** for us to have a like serious influence on you as an athlete and your performance in quarterfinals.

**[07:58]** And the cool thing is it's either your Super Bowl or they've made it cost a lot with the way that you qualify for a semi-finals.

**[08:07]** So either way, a really, really great opportunity and hope to see a lot of you guys there.

**[08:13]** We are in week two of the Wenzharu phase for Misfit affiliate.

**[08:18]** This is the only phase of the year where we follow a true weekly 5x5 linear progression back squat.

**[08:25]** and as they get heavy, I want you guys to send some videos.

**[08:29]** So make sure you tag Misfit Athletics on Instagram

**[08:32]** or send them over in Telegram or via email,

**[08:35]** let us know how that's going.

**[08:36]** If you want two weeks for free

**[08:37]** of the Misfit affiliate programming,

**[08:39]** head to teammisfit.com, click on sign up now

**[08:42]** and your choice will be Sugar Watch,

**[08:44]** StreamFit or Push Press.

**[08:45]** And if you plan on signing up for the site specifically

**[08:49]** and you want to see what that PDF looks like

**[08:51]** and you want a two week free trial, email me,

**[08:53]** coachatmisfitathletics.com

**[08:54]** I will send you a sample.

**[08:56]** We are in week seven of phase two

**[08:58]** on our individual programming.

**[09:00]** You can find those at the Lincoln Bio,

**[09:01]** Stri-V and Fitter.

**[09:03]** I wanna know how, I mean,

**[09:04]** I know how people are doing via the Telegram group,

**[09:07]** but the progressions of the handstand pushups,

**[09:11]** the pulling gymnastics and the cleans

**[09:14]** are gonna get a little spicy here

**[09:15]** as we push towards retest and we push towards primer week.

**[09:18]** So we'd love to know how you guys

**[09:20]** are doing on all of that stuff.

**[09:22]** All right, housekeeping is done.

**[09:23]** We have a new segment.

**[09:25]** This is in place of Life Chat.

**[09:27]** If you guys still want some Life Chat,

**[09:29]** if you guys want something different, let us know,

**[09:32]** but we'll probably try this out for a month or so

**[09:34]** and see what you guys think.

**[09:35]** And it is called Read, Listen, Watch,

**[09:37]** where we give you guys recommendations of things.

**[09:40]** I'm gonna try to mix it up a little bit.

**[09:43]** I'm gonna get some nerdy things in there,

**[09:46]** potentially get some fun things in there.

**[09:48]** I do see what kind of music you fucking guys,

**[09:51]** damn it, I already said it.

**[09:52]** I was seeing what the swear counter would be

**[09:54]** without Hunter.

**[09:55]** And well now, at least it's only one and not 66 or whatever.
