---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379"
published: 2025-12-16
episode_number: "379"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:59"
chunk_end: "19:58"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379 - Chunk 2

Episode: [When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:59]** And I think I might be able to help you guys out

**[10:01]** with your musical taste a little bit, I'm hoping.

**[10:03]** And maybe your movie taste too, because listen,

**[10:06]** we don't need to listen to Morgan Wallen

**[10:09]** and watch Fast and Furious.

**[10:11]** Those aren't the only things that you can do, all right?

**[10:13]** I can't potentially, I just wanna broaden your horizons.

**[10:17]** I'm not saying don't listen to what you like,

**[10:19]** just maybe we'll find something.

**[10:21]** So reading, I will put this in the show notes.

**[10:24]** Got a little study here, the effect of Rodeola Rosea

**[10:27]** supplementation on endurance performance

**[10:29]** and related biomarkers.

**[10:31]** I thought this was cool because I think it tells us

**[10:34]** a little bit about what it takes to be a good endurance

**[10:37]** athlete and what it takes to be the kind of athlete

**[10:40]** that can recover.

**[10:41]** And it's not always, you know, caffeine and jacking

**[10:46]** your heart rate up and doing all of that.

**[10:48]** I'm going to lower my rate of perceived exertion and my time to exhaustion and how I feel.

**[10:56]** Sometimes it's the opposite, right?

**[10:58]** Can I breathe and stay calm and stay under control when I'm doing this?

**[11:02]** And it's funny because there's, I didn't think of this until after, but one of Grillo

**[11:06]** Mine's products is Calm, which I believe has like Theanine, Ashwagandha, Rodeo, Saffron.

**[11:13]** And again, the reason I begged them to sponsor the podcast is because like we don't do gimmicky

**[11:18]** shit on misfitathletics.com and they just put stuff that's scientifically backed into

**[11:25]** their products.

**[11:26]** And so basically if I want to sort of skip to the end here in conclusion, Rodeo, Rodeo

**[11:31]** or Rosé supplementations is an effective ergogenic aid for enhancing endurance performance

**[11:36]** and improving physiological biomarkers related to oxidative stress, muscle damage and metabolic

**[11:41]** efficiency through heterogeneity, maybe across studies warrants cautious interpretation.

**[11:49]** So this is a meta analysis of them going back and looking at all of the data.

**[11:53]** And again, the mechanism here is more related to stress management and cortisol and sort

**[11:59]** of staying within yourself and not panicking during endurance work.

**[12:04]** So I thought that that was pretty cool.

**[12:06]** I'll link to it so you guys can check it out.

**[12:08]** A few different ways that you can take that supplement.

**[12:10]** and I'm not even necessarily saying that that's something that you need to do. It's obviously

**[12:13]** something you can look into, but knowing that a calming effect on your nervous system is fantastic

**[12:20]** for recovery, but also can like for me personally, my bike scores on a slow Saturday morning compared

**[12:28]** to my bike scores in the evening as a business owner, dad, husband, etc. Not the same. And,

**[12:36]** you know, it's not like the way that the whole gas tank thing works that we talk about isn't just

**[12:42]** I'm depleting glycogen or whatever, just stress builds and kind of takes over your headspace,

**[12:48]** that sort of thing. Yeah, it's a cool product. I'm excited to try the Gorilla Mind stuff. I

**[12:53]** actually ordered it during their Black Friday deal. Yeah, yeah, those deals were pretty crazy.

**[12:59]** Yeah, they're pretty wild. But I'm excited to try the protein, the intra workout stuff.

**[13:06]** So you had some good reviews on it.

**[13:08]** For sure.

**[13:09]** All right, listen, one of the greatest,

**[13:11]** hear me right now, I'm gonna say this,

**[13:13]** live in-person country albums ever made.

**[13:17]** Meta-modern sounds and country music by Sturgill Simpson.

**[13:21]** Listen to it.

**[13:22]** Listen to this record, I swear to God.

**[13:27]** This is like, cause I grew up listening to

**[13:30]** a lot of different music, but something that kind of

**[13:34]** went across all generations in my family was like Johnny Cash, Waylon Jennings,

**[13:39]** Merle Haggard, you know, kind of outlaw country, they would call it.

**[13:42]** And this gentleman has that kind of sound, but like, I will warn you,

**[13:47]** the first song is a really good song. There are a lot of drug references.

**[13:50]** You can tell on some of the stuff he was singing,

**[13:53]** he was at a particular point in his life,

**[13:55]** but metamodern sounds and country music.

**[13:57]** I will share the link in the link for Spotify. Incredible album.

**[14:02]** And last but not least, to lighten the mood a little bit,

**[14:05]** it was putting together,

**[14:08]** I haven't really done it completely yet.

**[14:09]** You guys can see like some stuff going on

**[14:11]** in the background here, but I busted this bad boy out.

**[14:15]** This is Troy and Abed in the morning.

**[14:17]** Troy and Abed's fake show, fake morning show

**[14:20]** that they do on Community.

**[14:22]** I referred to my basement in my old house

**[14:25]** that I remodeled during COVID as the Dreamatorium.

**[14:28]** And season three, episode seven of Community

**[14:32]** is our introduction to the Dreamatorium.

**[14:34]** And you gotta like comedy,

**[14:37]** but a little bit like left of center

**[14:40]** and put definitely nerdy.

**[14:43]** There's like a real nerd vibe going on there.

**[14:45]** But if you haven't watched Community, you should.

**[14:48]** And if you're only gonna watch one episode,

**[14:49]** season three, episode seven.

**[14:52]** All right Paige, should you go for us?

**[14:54]** Well, I think,

**[14:56]** so I don't really have anything for Reed right now,

**[14:59]** other than some boring marketing and sales education stuff.

**[15:06]** So it kind of ties and so.

**[15:07]** Has it even been good?

**[15:09]** I mean, it's all about gym business.

**[15:12]** So I, you know, a little bit of life chat.

**[15:15]** I ended up moving.

**[15:17]** I moved to New Jersey.

**[15:18]** I'm at a new CrossFit, not a CrossFit gym.

**[15:21]** I'm at a new gym called Great White Conditioning and Fitness.

**[15:24]** They're in Hackensack, New Jersey.

**[15:26]** So it's like two hours from home,

**[15:27]** but develop some good relationships here with some friends.

**[15:31]** They own the gym and I've been at CrossFit Vertex

**[15:34]** for 10 years, 11 years, and I was ready for some change.

**[15:38]** So, but moving here, like part of my role is, you know,

**[15:43]** helping on the business side,

**[15:45]** bring in members, grow the business essentially.

**[15:48]** We're working with a consulting group

**[15:51]** and it's just a lot of education

**[15:54]** on the backend side of business.

**[15:57]** So it's a lot of new for me.

**[15:59]** So some people I'm sure find that interesting,

**[16:02]** but it's a consulting business or a company.

**[16:06]** So I can't really share their stuff.

**[16:09]** Yeah.

**[16:10]** Yeah, yeah, yeah.

**[16:11]** But I'm excited to learn it's a new challenge

**[16:14]** and I'm enjoying it so far, I'll say that.

**[16:19]** All right, homework for next week, you owe us a snippet.

**[16:22]** You tell us something you learned that was cool.

**[16:25]** because there's definitely a lot of people listening to the show that would benefit from

**[16:29]** something like that.

**[16:30]** Okay, deal.

**[16:31]** Yep.

**[16:32]** I can do that.

**[16:33]** So listen, I'll go with, I have a podcast, but it's like a cinema podcast.

**[16:39]** It's actually something that traveling back and forth from Jersey to PA, you know, pop

**[16:44]** it on and I'm easy drive two hours and I'm there.

**[16:47]** It's called Barasca.

**[16:48]** It's by a company called Q code.

**[16:52]** You know a few episodes long, but it really does you know if you can use your imagination you can really kind of

**[17:01]** Create a movie in your head with a podcast like this. So there's different characters. So you hear different voices

**[17:06]** There's dialogue so it's pretty neat. So I'd recommend you know for anyone that has long travel like episodic

**[17:14]** Yeah, like short form like does it like one episode connect to the next episode? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah

**[17:20]** So I guess it's kind of like a TV series, I would say.

**[17:23]** Yeah.

**[17:24]** Podcast form.

**[17:25]** So it's pretty neat.

**[17:25]** So I shared the link there.

**[17:27]** And then, you know, I'm a little probably boring right now.

**[17:30]** Again, a lot of change going on at my end.

**[17:32]** So I haven't been doing a whole ton of stuff

**[17:33]** outside of work and moving,

**[17:36]** but I'm gonna say Stranger Things season five.

**[17:39]** I mean, I'm sure most people have watched it by now, but.

**[17:41]** I only, I'm only like two and a half,

**[17:45]** three episodes in, something like that.

**[17:47]** Yeah, I just, I mean, there's only four in this,

**[17:49]** in this one.

**[17:51]** So yeah, I think the next group of episodes comes out

**[17:55]** next week, Christmas week, maybe.

**[17:58]** Yep, that's true.

**[17:58]** I think it's Christmas and New Year's.

**[18:00]** Something like that.

**[18:01]** Yep.

**[18:02]** Cool.

**[18:03]** All right.

**[18:04]** So, crazy year, crazy year.

**[18:06]** Honestly, crazy year for so many reasons.

**[18:10]** But one of the reasons it was a crazy year for both of us

**[18:13]** is because, correct me if I'm missing anything,

**[18:16]** We went open, mayhem, online semi-final, BFP one.

**[18:20]** Now those were very close together.

**[18:23]** Just put that out there.

**[18:24]** We had a shoulder injury and an injection

**[18:28]** in the middle of all of that.

**[18:30]** We made the very tough decision,

**[18:32]** interested in your hindsight on this, to skip Syndicate.

**[18:35]** BFP two, Rogue in Scotland,

**[18:37]** and then we'll talk a little bit about skipping

**[18:40]** the finals in Copenhagen for WFP three.

**[18:43]** When you hear all of that,

**[18:45]** What are the things that come to mind related

**[18:48]** to that list specifically?

**[18:50]** I mean, we knew it was gonna be a lot.

**[18:52]** We didn't, I think I underestimated the amount of stress

**[18:57]** that it was gonna put on me,

**[18:58]** especially dealing with an injury through basically

**[19:01]** the bulk of it, right?

**[19:02]** Open, mayhem, online semi-finals,

**[19:05]** World Fitness Project one, all of those.

**[19:07]** All of those, I was in the right headspace,

**[19:10]** injury was really, really bogging me down.

**[19:14]** So a lot of stress that I don't say, I wouldn't say I managed or cope very well with.

**[19:21]** I think the stretch of mayhem online semi-finals world fitness project one,

**[19:27]** and honestly even skipping syndicate, because again, there's not doing something

**[19:32]** has a, an effect, a stressful effect and a cost related to it.

**[19:36]** Right?

**[19:36]** Because there's a version of you that looks at that list and just circles

**[19:40]** syndicate past version of you that does that.

**[19:43]** And that's the one thing it's almost like telling in a way,

**[19:46]** like a symbolic thing that it says that.

**[19:49]** I believe that recovering from that run

**[19:54]** was really a very serious challenge.
