---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379"
published: 2025-12-16
episode_number: "379"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:58"
chunk_end: "29:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379 - Chunk 3

Episode: [When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[19:58]** And I was really happy about the pre-prep

**[20:03]** for essentially what we did after WFP1

**[20:08]** before we started prep for WFP2.

**[20:10]** We found this rhythm of this baseline setting

**[20:13]** that we could do that I've definitely done

**[20:15]** with athletes before in different situations,

**[20:17]** but we were able to really zero in on stuff.

**[20:19]** And then we started prep.

**[20:21]** And I believe that a very good version of you showed up

**[20:26]** at WFP2.

**[20:27]** Now, I'm not going to politicize any of this shit

**[20:32]** because I don't do that.

**[20:33]** It's not what we do on the podcast.

**[20:36]** It's not what we do on the show.

**[20:37]** But when you look back at some of the programming,

**[20:41]** someone your size crushing WFP2

**[20:45]** was probably not in the cards.

**[20:46]** Yeah, agreed.

**[20:47]** And by crushing, I mean, you being up there

**[20:50]** with the athletes that you're used to being up there with.

**[20:53]** A lot of machines, I guess we can just leave it at that.

**[20:57]** But when you look at those things, that's one of those,

**[21:00]** and I'll play devil's advocate,

**[21:02]** we need to prepare you for those situations

**[21:06]** because you had a very good showing at Syndicate

**[21:09]** the previous year and that was a big athlete program,

**[21:13]** for sure, like 100%.

**[21:15]** But it is what it is and you're competing against

**[21:17]** who you're competing against.

**[21:19]** And there are moments when it still pays to be,

**[21:22]** have faster rep speed and certain things

**[21:24]** and shorter range of motion.

**[21:25]** And you punched your ticket to go to the CrossFit Games.

**[21:29]** So I don't believe in pointing the finger somewhere else

**[21:33]** when it comes to programming,

**[21:34]** just because unknown and unknowable,

**[21:36]** there are going to be years where it's going to pay to be this size and

**[21:39]** years where it's going to pay to be this size. And there's, you know,

**[21:42]** kind of a, uh, an online narrative right now about the rise of the machines.

**[21:47]** I think that we could, we could definitely do a full episode on that for sure.

**[21:50]** And we could talk about how maybe they're a little bit better for training than

**[21:53]** they are for testing in the CrossFit space. But a lot of that's fairly subjective.

**[21:58]** Um, skip syndicate specifically, what's the hind, what's the,

**[22:02]** Like, how do you feel about that?

**[22:04]** What's the hindsight on that?

**[22:05]** Because it was very much the right decision.

**[22:08]** I don't think either of us would be able to revisionist history that and go, well.

**[22:12]** Yeah.

**[22:12]** I mean, honestly, like, you know, you, you get to a point where, where after World

**[22:17]** Fitness Project one, you have the week to recover, you're taking time off.

**[22:22]** The email pops in, Hey, you're invited.

**[22:25]** You start thinking about the FOMO you're going to feel when you don't go.

**[22:28]** But like I knew I had to prioritize not just my injury but my headspace.

**[22:36]** I knew not going and dealing with, you know, feeling, you know, the fear of missing out,

**[22:42]** FOMO, all that stuff.

**[22:43]** I knew all of that was way easier to deal with than managing the stress if I were to

**[22:49]** compete.

**[22:50]** Like, yeah.

**[22:52]** night and day different of dealing with being left out and not going versus the stress of

**[22:59]** needing to eat enough, recover enough, sleep enough. Just the prep wasn't there for it.

**[23:04]** I mean, it was managing prep around my shoulder, around trying to build volume back up, around

**[23:11]** trying to get my confidence back up, to fit all of that in such a small window of time,

**[23:16]** just a couple months. Maybe for somebody, it's doable, but for me, it wasn't.

**[23:21]** And maybe there's a different approach to take. So, you know, it's something obviously we're gonna

**[23:27]** look back on this here and be like, okay, so what are the changes we need to make? So yeah,

**[23:32]** I mean, definitely the right choice not to go and give myself that kind of lead way into World

**[23:38]** Fitness Project too. Yeah, Rogue is an interesting one because I think it did a bunch of different

**[23:45]** things you got really sick after WFP two and the way that I have theorized about that and

**[23:55]** maybe even currently if you guys can hear page sounds maybe a little under the weather

**[23:59]** is the micro version of it the connection to it would be I'll have a remote client come

**[24:05]** visit for the first time and show off a little bit and bury themselves like some of them

**[24:11]** and they're done that.

**[24:12]** Some of the greatest performances

**[24:14]** I have ever seen in my life were at Misfit Gym Portland

**[24:18]** during Open Gym with someone being like, watch this.

**[24:21]** Because they have the motivation to push

**[24:26]** and maybe not the pressure of a couple thousand people

**[24:30]** watching them and if I don't do this,

**[24:32]** then I don't make it, so you don't really have to pull back

**[24:34]** and then everyone has the flu like three days later.

**[24:37]** Your week was almost.

**[24:38]** Multiple occasions I have done that.

**[24:39]** Your week was almost a year.

**[24:40]** That's how I, because you can't,

**[24:44]** unless you end up finding something out medically,

**[24:48]** like you just, like thinking about,

**[24:51]** thinking about how someone that's as healthy as you

**[24:54]** could be as sick as long as you are

**[24:57]** is like a head scratcher, for sure.

**[25:00]** But you can also go places and bury yourself

**[25:04]** more than other people can and can kind of delay.

**[25:08]** That's one thing that's, again,

**[25:10]** you can do a micro version of it where someone is like,

**[25:12]** looks completely fine and is like talking to you

**[25:15]** during a workout.

**[25:16]** And then the second it ends, they're dead.

**[25:19]** They're like collapsed.

**[25:21]** They're like on the rower and they're pulling

**[25:22]** and they're talking to you like, nah man,

**[25:23]** I don't think I can hold, I don't think I can hold 1350,

**[25:26]** but it's still, you know, coherent.

**[25:28]** And then after they're like slobbering

**[25:30]** and have to take their shoes off.

**[25:31]** Everyone else is gonna take their shoes off.

**[25:32]** I've never had that.

**[25:33]** And yeah, it's just, it's crazy to watch the way

**[25:37]** that you guys can maybe turn that part of your brain off

**[25:41]** for either the period of time of a workout

**[25:44]** or just continually going back to the well.

**[25:46]** So once you were doing better and it was time to train

**[25:50]** was when we were discussing whether you were going to do

**[25:53]** rogue and the UFP, which is just like,

**[25:59]** I'm careful in those situations for multiple reasons

**[26:03]** because if an athlete makes a decision

**[26:06]** that I don't necessarily agree with

**[26:07]** and I'm in their corner,

**[26:08]** once the decision is made and cemented,

**[26:11]** I am all in on that.

**[26:12]** So I try to help guide and I drop hints

**[26:17]** and things of that nature,

**[26:18]** but I don't always come out and say,

**[26:20]** I really don't want you to do both of these things.

**[26:22]** It's like, what are you thinking?

**[26:24]** And then my fingers are crossed under the chair

**[26:26]** and you're like, I don't think I can do both.

**[26:28]** And I'm like, fucking right.

**[26:29]** Oops, I swore again.

**[26:31]** We may have agreed on that,

**[26:33]** but I don't think we agreed on which one I should do.

**[26:35]** Well, I was it was to me, I'm thinking about it in a lot of ways from like a programming perspective.

**[26:41]** Yeah, for sure.

**[26:42]** Like, you can do rogue, but we're not going to be ready.

**[26:45]** Yeah.

**[26:46]** And not only was that the case, it was like, OK, here we go again, like a three week peaking phase, which is like kind of a joke.

**[26:53]** It's not actually a joke, but it's kind of a joke.

**[26:56]** And then you just came to me and said, I don't even want to do that.

**[26:59]** Like, I don't have it in me to do another prep.

**[27:02]** And that's kind of how I know that both of these are.

**[27:05]** It's not the right call to do both of these things.

**[27:07]** And I'll let you speak to maybe what rogue means to you,

**[27:11]** because I think that had a lot to do with which one.

**[27:14]** 100%, yeah.

**[27:16]** I mean, if you're following the sport, you guys,

**[27:19]** you know just how premier of a competition it is to go to rogue.

**[27:23]** And they have their own separate leaderboard

**[27:25]** to be able to qualify to gain points and things like that.

**[27:30]** And for me, like always know that there's

**[27:33]** to be an expiration date on when the competitive CrossFit ends. I don't know when that is. I don't

**[27:40]** plan on stopping right now. But I think the decision also, I think part of my mindset was

**[27:47]** there of like, I'm not going to get to compete at Rogue forever. It's a competition that the best

**[27:52]** of the best go to. It's an honor to get an invite there. My first invite was kind of a backfill. So

**[27:59]** So I was grateful enough to get to go, last minute kind of surprise.

**[28:04]** And then I followed with two years of getting to actually compete there.

**[28:07]** So it's just one of those that time is limited and your years are limited on going to it.

**[28:13]** And I didn't want to miss out.

**[28:16]** So it definitely played a big part of it.

**[28:18]** But I mean, we had so many good takeaways going that I think in the end, leaderboard

**[28:24]** wise, not a good showing for me at all.

**[28:26]** I could say that probably about my entire year,

**[28:29]** but it's been continuing to help me make the decisions

**[28:33]** that I need to make to go into the next year

**[28:36]** and to move forward even just in my life

**[28:38]** and career outside of CrossFit.

**[28:41]** Yeah, and you talk a little bit about your head space

**[28:45]** after the first couple of events,

**[28:47]** and then your head space by the end of the competition.

**[28:50]** Yeah, I mean, there were events that we were,

**[28:55]** I was confident in, I was looking forward to, you know, the muscle-ups on the log.

**[29:00]** Like, these are all things that I had no issues with in years past and actually excelled really well and thrived on those.

**[29:07]** I was confident getting back to the horizontal pegboard this year.

**[29:10]** But, you know, when the event came and when it was done, was in the warm-up area cooling down.

**[29:17]** And I'm like, I just figured it out too late in the event to put up a good score.

**[29:22]** Like, you know, like it was just like a minutes behind where I wanted to be and where we expected

**[29:28]** to be. And I'm just figuring out my log muscle-ups and I'm just figuring out my rhythm again on the

**[29:34]** horizontal pegboard. So like, I would come back and I was just pissed off and really disappointed

**[29:38]** in myself. And gosh, we took a walk outside in the freezing cold and in the rain and I'm just

**[29:45]** crying and like, you know, the beginning of, of the weekend and probably throughout the,

**[29:52]** you know, the middle of it, I was like, I don't belong here, which sucks. It's a lot to handle,
