---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379"
published: 2025-12-16
episode_number: "379"
chunk_index: 7
chunk_start: "59:47"
chunk_end: "01:02:41"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379 - Chunk 7

Episode: [When More Isn’t Better: Paige Semenza on competition overload, recovery, and rebuilding momentum - E.379](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[59:47]** And again, the right mindset of like, this is good for me, this is challenging me, that's

**[59:53]** been kind of a game changer lately of like, I know I'm adding, you know, more time than

**[59:59]** I've ever probably spent on my computer, even in college now.

**[01:00:03]** So it's helping me like, find some enjoyment in that and just reminding myself that the

**[01:00:09]** challenge is good and this is for my future.

**[01:00:12]** So it's kind of that natural transition for me of like, I'm getting older.

**[01:00:17]** Again, competing will have an expiration date.

**[01:00:19]** It's not right now, but I need to start having that transition ready to go.

**[01:00:27]** For when it comes, I need to feel comfortable with what I'm moving into next.

**[01:00:32]** Feel ready.

**[01:00:33]** Yeah, for sure.

**[01:00:34]** Final thoughts for me, 2025.

**[01:00:36]** Whoa.

**[01:00:37]** Personal life, professional life, the whole deal.

**[01:00:39]** It was a wild ride and maybe we can end the year

**[01:00:43]** with a little bit more of, you know,

**[01:00:46]** people make fun of the like end of the year recap

**[01:00:49]** and New Year's resolutions, I like it.

**[01:00:51]** I like a turning of the page,

**[01:00:53]** I like again the narrative to build around, you know,

**[01:00:55]** getting excited for certain things

**[01:00:57]** and open prep will start on January 5th, which is cool.

**[01:01:01]** So we kind of get that like, all right, here we go.

**[01:01:05]** Yeah.

**[01:01:05]** Starting this thing over again,

**[01:01:06]** that sort of deal, which is cool.

**[01:01:08]** Yeah, I think with a lot of the changes, honestly, for like our whole Misfit team,

**[01:01:12]** really, we kind of get that fresh start a little bit before the new year, which I

**[01:01:16]** think helps us kind of get that momentum rolling and again, continue to deliver

**[01:01:21]** programming that, you know, our community enjoys and that it challenges them.

**[01:01:25]** So I think a lot of the change that's happening right now is, has been quick,

**[01:01:30]** but is going to be really, really positive in the long.

**[01:01:33]** Yeah, for sure.

**[01:01:34]** Agreed.

**[01:01:34]** Did we do it?

**[01:01:35]** Yeah.

**[01:01:36]** Thank you for tuning into another episode of the Misfit podcast.

**[01:01:39]** If you would like to support the podcast in a direct way, head to GorillaMind.com.

**[01:01:44]** Use the code word Misfit.

**[01:01:46]** Yeah, I will.

**[01:01:48]** I'm just going to keep showing you guys this because this is kind of helping me

**[01:01:52]** with the chaos in my life currently.

**[01:01:54]** And then soon enough, I'll talk to you a little bit more about the amazing fish

**[01:01:59]** oil or Gorilla Mind Calm when I calm down.

**[01:02:03]** If that ever happens.

**[01:02:04]** If you're looking for affiliate programming, head to team misfit.com, click on the sign up now

**[01:02:08]** button. You get two weeks for free at any of our program partners. Or if you want to sign up for

**[01:02:12]** the site, there is no free trial there, but you can email me coach at misfitathletics.com.

**[01:02:16]** And I will send you that free sample. You can also head to the link in bio on our Instagram

**[01:02:22]** for training camp at CrossFit Roots, Boulder, Colorado, January 30th to February 1st. Great

**[01:02:27]** open prep and quarterfinals prep style camp. And then if you're looking for our programming,

**[01:02:33]** If you've made it this far and you're not following our programming, you're nuts.

**[01:02:36]** Strivee, Fitter, get on there. Join the Telegram group. See you guys next week.
