---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387"
published: 2026-02-11
episode_number: "387"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:57"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits! Alright, you can't take a bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said either.

**[00:17]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast on today's show.

**[00:23]** Quarterfinals is back. We're going to talk through what you can expect in quarterfinals,

**[00:28]** how we would go about prepping,

**[00:31]** how we're going to go about prepping.

**[00:32]** The Misfit Athletics quarterfinals peaking phase

**[00:37]** starts on Monday, February 16th.

**[00:40]** That'll be a few days after this drops.

**[00:42]** We'll have the free trials turned back on,

**[00:44]** but more than anything,

**[00:45]** whether you're following the programming or not,

**[00:47]** again, the idea is to tell you

**[00:50]** what you can expect quarterfinals to be based on past data.

**[00:54]** I always think that's super helpful.

**[00:55]** And then how we use that to get people ready.

**[00:58]** Before we do that, as always, a little bit of housekeeping,

**[01:00]** and then we will jump right in.

**[01:02]** Paige, you have a funny, I'm looking at the notes here,

**[01:06]** shout out of the week, what you got?

**[01:08]** Yeah, I'm gonna talk about the yappers on Fitter.

**[01:12]** We got just a couple people in there

**[01:13]** that keep the train going.

**[01:16]** Midlife crisis, I don't even know who that is,

**[01:20]** but they make me laugh a lot.

**[01:23]** Right, they're an Aussie, I do know that,

**[01:25]** and I've tried to figure out who it is,

**[01:28]** I can't even with like, like the data that I have, like the customer data says midlife

**[01:34]** crisis and like, wow, this is great.

**[01:36]** Yeah, I mean, they, you know, they keep the culture of misfit alive in that app.

**[01:42]** And, you know, they're all on the leaderboard, things like that.

**[01:44]** So shout out to those guys.

**[01:45]** I'll do basically the same shout out, but in a different spot.

**[01:49]** I just think the athlete IQ exercises and then the open simulation stuff is really putting

**[01:58]** people in a much better place to understand.

**[02:03]** And I've talked about it in the past, we'll do an athlete IQ episode and we'll say, you

**[02:08]** need to do this 150 times a week and this is how it is.

**[02:12]** And I think the overall concept is just so huge that it's like, where do I start?

**[02:17]** How do I start?

**[02:18]** and doing the worksheets and having people talk through stuff.

**[02:22]** You can really see, I think it's hard for people last week with the super heavy squats

**[02:28]** matching in there to dial things back and actually scale it to the percentages that

**[02:35]** we recommended.

**[02:36]** But so many people got such a good workout there, and they'll know more about what they

**[02:42]** they can actually do and accomplish when they have a ladder like that.

**[02:47]** Because they, you're not sure where you're gonna land if,

**[02:52]** let's say it's two rounds or five rounds of how it ascends.

**[02:56]** You're not positive where you're gonna land.

**[02:58]** But I think you know more when you scale than when you just go in and do.

**[03:04]** I did see there were a few people that only did the first round and

**[03:07]** there's actually nothing wrong with finding that out as well.

**[03:11]** We talk a lot, definitely talk to at camp,

**[03:13]** but we talk a lot about like making a bunch of mistakes

**[03:16]** with athlete IQ exercises is like half of the point anyways.

**[03:20]** So I just thought it was cool that we're continuing

**[03:23]** to roll in that way.

**[03:25]** And then a little preview for this week.

**[03:27]** This week's is highly accessible and very dirty.

**[03:33]** And I'm just excited for people to dig into that side of it

**[03:36]** and see what it's like to do the athlete IQ exercise

**[03:41]** when we know that it's a cardio stimulus

**[03:44]** and we know that certain strategies

**[03:46]** are gonna work in certain places,

**[03:48]** but there's actually, this one is intentionally

**[03:52]** a bit of a puzzle.

**[03:53]** Like there's more to this than you would think

**[03:56]** and I'm intrigued to see people's sheets this week.

**[04:00]** So if you're listening, you have no idea

**[04:01]** what we're talking about.

**[04:04]** We do an open simulation workout every week

**[04:06]** and in the Telegram group, which is free whether you're on the program or not.

**[04:10]** We do a sheet where you put in how long it's gonna take you to do each movement, and then

**[04:14]** what your strategy is for that, and then the exercise afterwards below is to have the actual

**[04:19]** factual information, and then you try to learn from what you did.

**[04:22]** So keep your eyes out for that.

**[04:24]** Join the Telegram group.

**[04:26]** If you're on our email list, you've got probably 5,000 invitations down there at the bottom.

**[04:31]** All right.

**[04:32]** Sponsors, ways to support Misfit, ways to support the show, our programming.

**[04:36]** Obviously we got those free trials turned back on for the quarter finals prep peaking phase.

**[04:40]** So you can click the link in bio on our Instagram, get signed up on Strivee or Fitter.

**[04:45]** Also, if you're looking for our affiliate programming, that's teammisfit.com.

**[04:48]** Teammisfit.com, click on sign up now, free trial at Sugarwad, stream fit or push press.

**[04:54]** If you want to see what subscribing on the website looks like, shoot me an email,

**[04:58]** coach at misfitathletics.com and I'll get you a sample and we can hop on a call.

**[05:02]** if you want to talk through all that good stuff. I would tell you to go buy the new shirt, but at

**[05:06]** the time that this drops, you will not be able to buy that anymore. I'll probably throw a few in

**[05:12]** the store afterwards for you people that are going to contact me one hour after it shuts down,

**[05:16]** but it'll just be like two to five shirts total. So sharpen the axe code where you can find all of

**[05:21]** your misfit gear. And last but not least, Gorilla Mind is sponsoring this episode of the podcast,

**[05:27]** GorillaMine.com forward slash misfit or just use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[05:32]** There isn't just a product of the week, there are products of the week. I think they got

**[05:38]** clobbered on Black Friday because I like to mix my... So for the proper fans out there,

**[05:46]** I have recreated our recover product with two of their products. So I buy the Vanilla Ice Cream

**[05:54]** Gorilla Way that just came back in stock. And I bought the other one, but I haven't

**[06:01]** tried it yet. So Paige can vouch for the other flavor. But their intro workout,

**[06:05]** the strawberry kiwi, I mix the vanilla ice cream protein with that. I get protein, carbs,

**[06:13]** electrolytes, and creatine. Stop me if you've heard that before. And we get it all in one go there.

**[06:20]** I do stick with the one-to-one ratio. So like you got to do a little math reach out to me if you need to

**[06:25]** But I do 40 grams of protein 40 grams of carbs after each workout

**[06:30]** So there's a lot of stuff that's restocked

**[06:33]** But that and then I always point to the can up over my shoulder here white frost is finally back in stock

**[06:39]** That's my favorite energy energy drink flavor that they have so I have a nice little restock coming

**[06:44]** for that. So grillemin.com, forward slash, I can't say slash today. I keep saying flat.

**[06:50]** Flat Smith fit. Slash misfit or use the code word misfit at checkout. All right, quarter finals is

**[07:00]** back and I want to be nice. I don't know if I do. Some part of me wants to be nice. We got open signups

**[07:06]** in a better spot. You'll find out. Yeah. Yeah. I guess. Open signups seem to be trending in a

**[07:12]** in a positive direction, they're higher,

**[07:15]** quite a bit higher than they were last year,

**[07:16]** trending back towards some of the really good years.

**[07:20]** I think we're right around 100,000 right now,

**[07:23]** somewhere in that range.

**[07:25]** And they brought back quarterfinals.

**[07:27]** And if you were around in the heyday

**[07:30]** when the crowds were so crazy at the CrossFit Games

**[07:33]** that it was like hard to leave your seats after an event,

**[07:35]** when there was the magic of someone from your gym

**[07:39]** trying to get into regionals, that sort of thing.

**[07:42]** bringing quarterfinals back is a step in the right direction to get back to that place.

**[07:48]** I think a lot of the signups that we lost last year were because of quarterfinals.

**[07:54]** Obviously, there were other reasons why people didn't sign up, but I also know that when you

**[08:00]** participate at a local level, you realize that people who aren't huge fans of the sport

**[08:06]** need some sort of connection, and quarterfinals, I think, is that connection.

**[08:11]** Now, unless, and I honestly am thinking about trying to get one of the like, the CrossFit

**[08:17]** nerds to join the show and explain this shit to us.

**[08:22]** The way that I understand the way that they're doing semi-finals invites is just like we're

**[08:27]** driving in the right direction and then we're pulling the e-brake and jamming it in reverse

**[08:31]** and going in the other direction.

**[08:34]** Are they inviting the same fucking people to every single quarterfinal?

**[08:39]** The top 20 from the games.

**[08:41]** So that looks like-

**[08:42]** It's just as bad if you guys have not explained it properly.

**[08:45]** Okay?

**[08:45]** If I'm missing something,

**[08:47]** I shouldn't have to DM Brian Spin and be like,

**[08:51]** hey, you've read every word of everything

**[08:53]** and seen every video, can you explain this to me?

**[08:56]** It should be very obvious how this works.

**[08:58]** And at this point, it's become such a joke

**[09:02]** that this stuff isn't obvious.

**[09:04]** So as far as I can tell,

**[09:07]** they're inviting the same people

**[09:09]** and they're doing the backfill thing that they did last year

**[09:12]** where if whoever qualifies, say out of mayhem,

**[09:15]** mayhem's early, there's a few others that are early,

**[09:18]** they cannot go to syndicate or whatever.

**[09:22]** I do know that that's part of it.

**[09:23]** But like last year, we had an athlete who was invited

**[09:25]** like five or six days before it started.

**[09:27]** I just, and I know that they move the online afterwards

**[09:30]** and that's gonna help some of this stuff.

**[09:32]** But like, if you guys wanna get back to a place where,

**[09:35]** Because right now, like, Syndicate had last year,

**[09:39]** had plenty of stars on the men's and women's side.

**[09:41]** There was nobody there.

**[09:43]** That place was empty.

**[09:44]** Right.

**[09:46]** If you want the crowd to come back,

**[09:48]** if you want the money to come back,

**[09:50]** if you want the signups to come back,

**[09:52]** you need to give opportunities to the not household names
