---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387"
published: 2026-02-11
episode_number: "387"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:53"
chunk_end: "39:51"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387 - Chunk 4

Episode: [Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:53]** need those weekend days.

**[29:55]** And so one of the reasons why we program the way that we do

**[29:57]** not just because we're prepping for quarterfinals

**[30:00]** to be in the back half of the week.

**[30:02]** So if you need that extra time,

**[30:03]** I do recommend doing the Monday and Thursday rest days

**[30:07]** so you can shift those.

**[30:10]** The peaking schedule itself is the way that we have,

**[30:15]** And of course these things have adapted over the years, but

**[30:18]** the way that we've prepped athletes for

**[30:20]** semi-finals in the CrossFit Games for a pretty long time.

**[30:24]** With a very high success rate just in terms of, I finished in this place last year,

**[30:29]** and I moved up the leaderboard and finished in this place this year.

**[30:32]** So we know that it works really well, and

**[30:34]** those athletes are almost always remote coaching athletes, or

**[30:37]** at least have a direct line to me.

**[30:40]** And that is the environment in which we create a lot of the stuff that ends up going out

**[30:46]** to the masses in that remote coaching setting.

**[30:49]** But my question has always been like, I think three years ago was the first time that we

**[30:54]** did a quarterfinals peaking phase for the masses.

**[30:59]** And it was like, we know that drawing it out for that seven weeks or that eight weeks is

**[31:04]** probably not necessary or realistic for a lot of people.

**[31:09]** So we decided to try out the five-week version, and we have had a hatchet athlete who has

**[31:17]** never qualified for semifinals qualify for semifinals by following the hatchet variation

**[31:25]** of the quarterfinals peaking phase every single year, which just gives us proof of concept

**[31:31]** and something to build on.

**[31:33]** And when you're looking at a smaller cohort, it's easier for me to reach out to them and

**[31:37]** say, hey, how did this go?

**[31:39]** How do we make it better?

**[31:40]** What did you struggle with?

**[31:41]** What did you not struggle with, et cetera?

**[31:43]** So the principles that we use within this peaking phase

**[31:47]** are what have gotten the best Misfit athletes

**[31:49]** over the years, the finishes that they have

**[31:53]** in terms of a program being successful.

**[31:55]** Obviously, always have the asterisk,

**[31:57]** the athletes are the ones actually doing the work.

**[32:00]** So that's where this comes from, this style.

**[32:03]** Important, who should follow what?

**[32:05]** If you are a pro and you are pretty damn sure

**[32:10]** you're going to an in-person semifinal,

**[32:12]** that is the, pro is the program that you should follow,

**[32:15]** the subscription that you should get.

**[32:17]** If your goal is online semifinals

**[32:20]** or like a Hail Mary to get to the in-person,

**[32:23]** you should be on Hatchet.

**[32:24]** So basically everyone should be on Hatchet.

**[32:28]** There are instructions every single day

**[32:31]** for the Hatchet open athlete,

**[32:34]** And you should follow those instructions on the program

**[32:37]** if you don't think you're gonna advance

**[32:40]** or you're like, maybe, we'll see.

**[32:42]** It's kind of a coin flip, I'm on the fringe there.

**[32:44]** Yeah.

**[32:45]** Because execution and intensity is going to do

**[32:48]** way more for your ability to get to quarterfinals

**[32:53]** than adding a bunch of volume.

**[32:55]** Adding a bunch of volumes,

**[32:56]** just not gonna do a whole lot for you.

**[32:58]** So here's how the six weeks play out.

**[33:02]** Weeks one and five, the beginning and the end,

**[33:05]** are the lowest volume that we do.

**[33:07]** There is an insinuation that you better be getting after it

**[33:13]** in the lowest volume.

**[33:15]** And we don't just start there for the intensity,

**[33:18]** we also start there for the habits.

**[33:20]** And we've been doing the habit stacking exercises

**[33:23]** in Telegram because that is the expected behavior

**[33:28]** behavior in a quarterfinals prep peaking phase, in any peaking phase.

**[33:33]** Like you start out and you're setting the tone with the energy that you bring to your

**[33:38]** lifting and your accessories and your skills.

**[33:40]** You're setting the tone with the intensity that you bring to conditioning and then you

**[33:44]** have more time outside of that than usual to work on warm up, cool down, mobility, sleep,

**[33:50]** nutrition, recovery, athlete IQ, do I need double sessions, that sort of thing.

**[33:56]** So we are doing that in week one because you're just going to add a little bit of volume at

**[34:01]** a time as you go and maintaining those behaviors as you add volume is paramount.

**[34:08]** On the back half of it, execution is everything.

**[34:11]** So if it's week five, we are a week and a half out from quarterfinals and quarterfinals

**[34:17]** does not have high volume.

**[34:19]** We just said it's the 26th to the 30th and you can expect four or five workouts.

**[34:24]** is execution at an extremely high intensity.

**[34:28]** So we are presenting the fittest version of ourselves

**[34:31]** that we've had the whole year thus far in week five,

**[34:35]** and we're smashing workouts and we're executing,

**[34:38]** and then we're leaving and recovering,

**[34:40]** because that's what we need to do in quarterfinals.

**[34:42]** Weeks two and four are moderate volume,

**[34:44]** and then week three is hell week.

**[34:47]** Week three should feel like too much volume.

**[34:51]** It is very intentional.

**[34:52]** There is a ton going on in terms of the adaptations that you're making.

**[34:57]** We are overreaching in search of supercompensation,

**[35:00]** but your ability to execute when you don't want to with the limited resources

**[35:07]** tells a different story to yourself about yourself.

**[35:11]** I can do this. Are you kidding me? Another zone two row? Are you insane?

**[35:16]** like I would rather do triple Fran right now than sit on that stupid thing and get more blisters on my hands.

**[35:25]** I've told this story a lot of times. I got into the zone two rowing game for a while. I asked a collegiate rower how the hell I could fix what was going on with my hands.

**[35:36]** Do I wear gloves? Do I tape it? My hands hurt all the time. And he was like, you should keep rowing until it doesn't hurt.

**[35:43]** Like, there's nothing. Yeah, there's nothing you can do. You will get used to it. You haven't

**[35:49]** gotten used to it yet. Like, end of story. I was like, damn. All right. Good to know. Right?

**[35:55]** All right. So again, weeks one and five lowest volume two and four moderate volume week three

**[36:00]** right in the middle is how weak that is our peak volume there. And then we end week six,

**[36:06]** taper and Showtime. You guys will have a template on how to taper. And if you follow misfit athletics,

**[36:12]** you will be following an RX or scaled version of quarterfinals during quarterfinals. This is what we

**[36:19]** are aspired to, this is what we are shooting for. And you always, if you are on comp, have the

**[36:25]** backup of GPP if you need it, if you're salty and don't want to do that. Before we jump into,

**[36:35]** we have to talk about navigating this during the open, which is its whole beast. What can you tell

**[36:40]** the listeners about prep, about how you thought about it, what your experiences were like.

**[36:47]** You've just been through basically every iteration of a comp prep we've ever written.

**[36:52]** Yeah. I mean, what I can tell you from a feelings perspective, because again,

**[36:59]** most athletes that I talk to, it's like everything that they've experienced, I've gone through the

**[37:03]** emotions, the highs and lows of it all. One thing that doesn't change is the intimidation

**[37:09]** factor of looking at the first week of a prep.

**[37:13]** There's always that one workout that you're like,

**[37:17]** that gives that oh shit factor of like, oh, we're in it.

**[37:20]** And we're in it for the next six weeks, eight weeks,

**[37:23]** whatever it is, that doesn't change.

**[37:25]** And you have to embrace that.

**[37:26]** So that's my one piece of advice for everybody

**[37:30]** that's about to tackle quarterfinals prep.

**[37:31]** You have to embrace the fact that it's

**[37:33]** going to be a little intimidating.

**[37:35]** And you just have to be vulnerable enough

**[37:38]** to put yourself out there with it.

**[37:40]** But I mean, I've gone through eight week prep,

**[37:43]** six week preps, and I do like the lower,

**[37:47]** like the six week because it's like,

**[37:49]** I know for myself at some point within an eight week prep,

**[37:53]** whether it was for the games or for semi-finals,

**[37:54]** there's always been a point where I needed a deload,

**[37:57]** whether that was just like a long weekend of a deload.

**[37:59]** And that usually would come like after hell weeks,

**[38:01]** like after, whether it's week three or week four

**[38:03]** of hell week.

**[38:05]** So what I like about the way that we peak and then we descend is, you know,

**[38:11]** kind of what we talked about was the execution, the intensity factor of like,

**[38:15]** you get into hell week and you're overreaching and it's really hard to

**[38:18]** bring intensity into the things that you're doing and your mind wants

**[38:22]** to start playing tricks on you.

**[38:24]** But when you're coming back down that mountain, it's like you almost get to

**[38:28]** a point where you're starting to feel a little restless because you don't

**[38:31]** have that added volume in there,

**[38:34]** but you're able to put so much more energy

**[38:36]** into the training pieces that you are doing.

**[38:39]** But like, you know, another piece of advice I would recommend

**[38:42]** is when you are in week one and it's the lowest volume,

**[38:46]** don't try to add more.

**[38:47]** Just be patient with the fact that you have minimal pieces

**[38:51]** to do and really, really learn how to execute

**[38:56]** on what's given.

**[38:57]** One thing that's funny that's a little psychological

**[38:59]** that I've found is quite a few athletes,

**[39:03]** aside from like the volume monsters,

**[39:04]** are like, they look at week one and they're like,

**[39:06]** this is low.

**[39:07]** That's it, yeah.

**[39:08]** And then they're in week five

**[39:09]** and they've already done all of the volume

**[39:11]** and they're like, this is too low.

**[39:13]** Right.

**[39:14]** And it's funny because it's basically the same thing

**[39:15]** when you get there,

**[39:16]** but when you come back down the other side,

**[39:18]** it's funny, some people feel good right at the end

**[39:22]** of Hell Week, some people feel good a little bit

**[39:24]** during week four, feel the best in week five,

**[39:27]** that sort of thing.

**[39:28]** So that side of it definitely does change.

**[39:31]** Navigating a program like this during the open.

**[39:34]** 26.1 is in week two, 26.2 is in week three.

**[39:39]** So Hell Week and 26.3 is in week four.

**[39:43]** One thing that Paige definitely noticed

**[39:45]** in our programming meetings

**[39:46]** and you will definitely notice is the second

**[39:49]** the open ends, not fucking around.
