---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387"
published: 2026-02-11
episode_number: "387"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:51"
chunk_end: "49:51"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387 - Chunk 5

Episode: [Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[39:51]** So if the gloves were unsort of, they're not after that.

**[39:56]** can tell literally the day after the open ends, it's like there were, there's some workouts

**[40:01]** in there that are just a little bit of a like, Hey, uh, we have a different thing that, that

**[40:07]** we're looking at. So let's talk about it from the perspective of the quarterfinals athlete

**[40:12]** versus the open athlete. A quarterfinals athlete is going to on the day of the open workout,

**[40:18]** they're going to prioritize the open workout and then they're going to add volume after

**[40:24]** based on that, but there is an expectation to do more.

**[40:27]** Some athletes will feel okay to do, you know,

**[40:30]** the full training day and some athletes won't.

**[40:32]** It is really important that you get right back to it,

**[40:36]** that the other days are very much that, you know,

**[40:38]** you get back into the rhythm and you get back to work.

**[40:42]** So that's just sort of something that's very important.

**[40:46]** You have to be able to live in that head space

**[40:49]** for a very short period of time

**[40:51]** and then get back to prepping

**[40:52]** because it's gonna be a little bit of an issue if you don't.

**[40:55]** Yeah, it's kinda like-

**[40:56]** When it comes to read-

**[40:57]** Sorry, it's kinda like someone who gets off track

**[41:01]** with their nutrition for a day.

**[41:02]** It's like you just have to hop right back on the train

**[41:05]** the next day, just to give that some perspective.

**[41:07]** You get like half of a training day every week

**[41:10]** that is just locked in to the open.

**[41:12]** This is one of the reasons why we're doing,

**[41:14]** also why we're doing open simulation,

**[41:16]** because that's not the only thing

**[41:17]** that you guys do on that day.

**[41:19]** If you're trying to prepare you for the moment

**[41:22]** of getting that done and then essentially getting back to work.

**[41:25]** Redos are interesting and tricky,

**[41:28]** and I think there's a huge spectrum here.

**[41:29]** My general opinion in a vacuum, in a bubble, is I love redos.

**[41:37]** That changes a little bit during a quarterfinals prep.

**[41:40]** If we're on the fence, we're really sure it makes sense

**[41:42]** for a redo.

**[41:44]** Quarterfinals prep is a reason not to redo it.

**[41:48]** But if you feel like you bombed it,

**[41:49]** if you felt like you went out too hot,

**[41:51]** if you left too much on the table,

**[41:54]** then we're probably gonna try to slot that in on Monday,

**[41:58]** if that's what your training schedule looks like.

**[42:00]** But there's so much nuance here

**[42:03]** that it's one of the main reasons

**[42:04]** why the Telegram group exists.

**[42:06]** Like get in there and ask questions

**[42:09]** about when you would redo and how you do certain things.

**[42:14]** The day before every open workout is very doable.

**[42:18]** Like it's not quite a primer day,

**[42:21]** but it's a primer day in disguise.

**[42:23]** For open athletes, there will be a PDF download

**[42:27]** of a primer day every week in Telegram.

**[42:30]** And it'll tell you that in your instructions.

**[42:32]** So you're on your instructions for Thursdays,

**[42:36]** and it will basically say, like,

**[42:38]** quarterfinals athletes, do all open athletes,

**[42:42]** download your template in Telegram.

**[42:45]** And you will get a very traditional primer day,

**[42:47]** because you're prioritizing what you're doing there,

**[42:50]** in redos for an open athlete.

**[42:52]** I don't want to say they're mandatory,

**[42:53]** but they're damn close, right?

**[42:55]** If you are like a fringe quarterfinals athlete,

**[42:58]** or if this is your Super Bowl,

**[43:00]** like you should be redoing workouts most weeks.

**[43:04]** Every once in a while, you knock one out of the park,

**[43:06]** it's long, okay, I could change this,

**[43:09]** I could change this and I get one more calorie.

**[43:11]** But a lot of them are tests

**[43:13]** that we don't have the exact answers to,

**[43:15]** then you get the answers

**[43:17]** and then you get a chance to retake it.

**[43:19]** Anything to add there about navigating quarterfinals prep during a competition?

**[43:25]** I mean, there's the stress management that you really have to kind of

**[43:28]** keep as a priority of like, we talked about it.

**[43:32]** We've talked about it with the open sim that we've been doing is like,

**[43:34]** it's gonna add that heightened sense of alertness and-

**[43:39]** Yeah.

**[43:40]** Like the anxieties that that can cause and things like that.

**[43:45]** You just have to find things, you know, maybe it's outside of the gym that are,

**[43:50]** you know, grounding for you that, you know, kind of bring you back down to,

**[43:55]** all right, I just competed in the open workout.

**[43:58]** Like, how do I get back into my just like everyday routine?

**[44:01]** Just, you know, kind of how we just talked about with the nutrition stuff of like,

**[44:04]** how do I just get right back on track?

**[44:06]** And again, with that heightened sense of alertness and the stress that it can cause

**[44:11]** is like, you just have to be a little bit more

**[44:14]** like hyper aware of those things.

**[44:17]** Yeah, yeah, for sure.

**[44:19]** All right, we already talked about the habit stacking

**[44:22]** a little bit, but the narrative and the big idea

**[44:27]** that quarterfinals prep is starting,

**[44:29]** I want you guys to take it very seriously.

**[44:32]** I want you to pretend like you're a professional athlete.

**[44:35]** When you walk through the door on Monday the 16th

**[44:39]** or Tuesday the 17th, I want you to feel a little bit different.

**[44:42]** I want you to carry yourself a little bit different.

**[44:45]** I want you to set the tone with these behaviors.

**[44:48]** And if you can't do all of them and train, you're probably training too much.

**[44:55]** Like I would rather see, again, I'll read the list that I wrote down, warming up,

**[45:00]** cooling down your mobility, sleep, nutrition, recovery, doing your athlete IQ

**[45:05]** work for most workouts. And then like, do you have time to get in a, you know, you want to do that

**[45:12]** second intense piece, but you know, if you do it right now, it's going to be a problem. So you got

**[45:16]** either going to leave and come back or you got to go fuel and, you know, hide in the coaches office

**[45:20]** for a minute and then go back out, that sort of thing. So those habits are mandatory. The higher

**[45:27]** your end of the volume is not. So I just want to put that out there again. I talk regularly

**[45:34]** about if you're not sure whether you want to be like a high level competitor or not,

**[45:39]** there are times in the year where you can try the lifestyle on to see if it fits, to

**[45:44]** see if it excites you and motivates you or just drives you into the ground because both

**[45:51]** are definitely possible. Some people get driven in the ground and get excited and then we

**[45:55]** you can talk about what that means. But I think pretending to be just one step above

**[46:03]** where you currently are at or where your behaviors are at for these five weeks could tell you

**[46:08]** a lot about yourself, about your training, about your aspirations, all that good stuff.

**[46:12]** Yeah. I think even if you kept your volume pretty normal to what you do on a daily basis,

**[46:19]** testing out double sessions, it's not necessarily about adding more volume always. Sometimes

**[46:25]** Sometimes it's just like splitting the stress of training pieces of like, I'm going to get

**[46:30]** in and really put my focus on this and my intensity is coming from the focus that I'm

**[46:36]** putting into my lifting and my second session later in the day is about putting the intensity

**[46:40]** into my conditioning piece.

**[46:42]** So just to kind of give a different perspective on like double sessions doesn't necessarily

**[46:47]** have to mean more volume either, but it is something I think that's worth trying out

**[46:52]** even for a quarterfinals athlete, even an open athlete,

**[46:56]** that's got a decent amount of volume that they do.

**[46:58]** Yeah, I can think of a few examples.

**[47:00]** So we've talked on the show, gave the shout out a few weeks

**[47:04]** back to McKenna for basically becoming

**[47:08]** a full-time crossfitter for this part of her life.

**[47:11]** And she's not going to get different volume

**[47:15]** than everybody else.

**[47:17]** But I'm going to write double sessions in there.

**[47:19]** And there's two very important reasons.

**[47:22]** Number one, if you leave and refuel and rest and then go do it again, the stimulus is better.

**[47:28]** You are getting better at a faster rate than other athletes, but that's also a skill.

**[47:34]** And any level of competition requires you to go up and down and then back up and then

**[47:40]** sometimes back down and back up again.

**[47:42]** And your ability, it's not that easy.

**[47:45]** Like for me naturally, I would rather have a long training session than the idea of getting

**[47:51]** and you're shit back together and getting back there and doing it again.

**[47:55]** And you have to train that.

**[47:56]** You have to get better at that.

**[47:58]** So you can get better at a faster rate than other people who are in doing so.

**[48:02]** You can execute better than they can when quarterfinals rolls around.

**[48:07]** And we're going to talk through the strategy of here's what we're going for in the AM.

**[48:11]** Here's what we're going for in the PM, et cetera.

**[48:13]** So there's multiple reasons to do that.

**[48:15]** And volume won't come into play until probably week three related to that.

**[48:21]** Weeks one through three, low, medium, highest volume, stimulus is everything.

**[48:28]** You should be in a pile of yourself regularly.

**[48:32]** And of course, there are more opportunities to learn in things like intervals,

**[48:38]** and we'll talk about a special version of intervals that you guys get to do

**[48:42]** that Paige is very familiar with.

**[48:44]** But I just cannot stress enough that you need to go there in these pieces.

**[48:52]** And one of the reasons why this became a narrative that we put out there is because I've had

**[48:57]** a lot of athletes dealing with injuries during these.

**[49:00]** That's where I was going.

**[49:01]** And it's like, well, we either need to stop.

**[49:05]** Like this is too much.

**[49:07]** This isn't a good idea.

**[49:09]** We're not, you know, we're sitting this one out, like that kind of thing.

**[49:12]** Or we need to accept the fact that there aren't a lot of injuries that make it so that you

**[49:17]** can't sit on an echo bike, right?

**[49:20]** If you can't ride an echo bike, something is very wrong.

**[49:23]** Right.

**[49:24]** A lot of people in CrossFit, when they're super stressed, deal with elbow shoulder stuff.

**[49:31]** Wow, you can run a lot.

**[49:33]** You can ride that C2 bike a lot.

**[49:34]** You can squat and you can lunge and you can do all these different things.

**[49:39]** So, we have, you have had your two best finishes

**[49:44]** at the CrossFit Games ever with navigating this world

**[49:48]** in a pretty crazy way.

**[49:50]** Right.
