---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387"
published: 2026-02-11
episode_number: "387"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:51"
chunk_end: "59:49"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387 - Chunk 6

Episode: [[../episode|Quarterfinals Are Back: What to Expect and How to Prep - E.387]]

## Transcript

**[49:51]** And you bought into the narrative

**[49:52]** that you could get stimulus and you proved that you could.

**[49:55]** And we had conversations where you're like,

**[49:57]** am I even gonna be ready?

**[49:58]** And it's like, how bad did that workout hurt that you did?

**[50:01]** And you're like, yeah.

**[50:03]** Yeah.

**[50:04]** Yep.

**[50:05]** So, I can't stress enough those three weeks

**[50:08]** of just getting after it.

**[50:10]** Like, don't be a dum-dum.

**[50:11]** If it's 20 minutes long, you shouldn't be redlining

**[50:14]** two minutes in.

**[50:15]** But like, if you feel like you're leaving too much

**[50:18]** on the table regularly, you're not doing it right.

**[50:21]** Yep.

**[50:22]** Yeah, I mean, that's exactly where I was gonna go with that

**[50:24]** is like, you are still getting really, really fit,

**[50:27]** even if there are movements that you have to kind of shy away

**[50:30]** from right now due to an injury.

**[50:33]** And, you know, obviously, I think for most people,

**[50:36]** The goal is like I'm staying off of these movements because this injury is something

**[50:41]** that potentially will get better before quarterfinals rolls around.

**[50:45]** So it's like, you know, you're still getting a ton of different movement patterns that

**[50:49]** are going to keep those movements that you're not doing like pretty fresh.

**[50:55]** It's pretty like, again, from experience, it's actually pretty mind blowing that you

**[50:59]** can skip out on ring muscle ups for four months and all of a sudden you're out doing a set

**[51:04]** out of 12 and it feels like you've never left doing them.

**[51:08]** So, you know, if that is you, if that resonates,

**[51:11]** like, you know, reach out and telegram too,

**[51:12]** because we can also help direct you as to like

**[51:15]** how to approach the training pieces

**[51:18]** if you are dealing with an injury.

**[51:20]** Yeah, stimulus is king because GPP is king.

**[51:22]** Yeah.

**[51:23]** You know, stay fit and you will do very well.

**[51:27]** Weeks four and five,

**[51:30]** we need to be very sports specific in our execution.

**[51:34]** And we need to be at this peak version of ourselves

**[51:37]** that we've tried to create throughout

**[51:39]** those first three weeks.

**[51:41]** But now we don't want to get cute with our training,

**[51:44]** but we have to make sure that the athlete IQ element

**[51:48]** is staring us right in the face.

**[51:50]** And we're going to be in Telegram talking you guys

**[51:52]** through this stuff, but weeks four and five,

**[51:55]** like if you are fit, strong, skilled, but like a bozo,

**[52:00]** please ask for help.

**[52:02]** We will help you.

**[52:03]** We know how to help you.

**[52:05]** We had a few people at training camp

**[52:07]** that were finishing workouts

**[52:10]** that they never would have been able to finish.

**[52:12]** And this is based on their own feedback.

**[52:15]** And they're like,

**[52:17]** you almost kind of just had me stand around in workouts

**[52:19]** and then I got four minutes faster.

**[52:22]** And it's like, I can probably only do one clean and jerk

**[52:25]** every 10 seconds at this weight.

**[52:27]** So do I do two or three as fast as possible

**[52:30]** and then I can't do them anymore?

**[52:31]** or do I have the athlete IQ to wait and do those things?

**[52:35]** So weeks four and five execution is incredibly important.

**[52:40]** What I wanna talk about now is how,

**[52:42]** if you follow Misfit Athletics,

**[52:44]** how is competition prep programming different

**[52:47]** than phase one, phase two, phase three,

**[52:50]** off season one, off season two, et cetera?

**[52:52]** To start, you're not really personalizing it

**[52:55]** unless you're an open athlete and you're cherry picking

**[52:58]** and not really following the instructions.

**[53:00]** Everything is mandatory outside of the reps column.

**[53:03]** The reps column stays there, the volume is lower

**[53:06]** than it is normally, and we're just making sure

**[53:08]** we're greasing the groove on any movement patterns

**[53:11]** that are a weakness of yours that don't show up

**[53:13]** in that week's programming or that two or three day block.

**[53:17]** All of these, you don't have to memorize any of this stuff,

**[53:19]** all of these instructions are in there.

**[53:21]** We also progress through variance

**[53:24]** versus very standard linear progression.

**[53:27]** The easiest way to think about that

**[53:29]** is the lifts still stay on the same days,

**[53:32]** like we snatch on Mondays and we squat on Wednesdays,

**[53:35]** but the stimulus rotates.

**[53:38]** So it's not like five by five at 70%

**[53:41]** and five by five at 75% and five by five at 80%.

**[53:44]** It's volume squats, then the next week it's heavy squats,

**[53:48]** then the next week it's speed squats.

**[53:51]** And we work through those things

**[53:52]** because we are chasing GPP.

**[53:55]** We don't know whether they are gonna ask you

**[53:57]** to lift that weight once or twice or 50 times.

**[54:02]** We're not sure.

**[54:03]** So we are gonna expose you to the things

**[54:05]** that we know create a stimulus

**[54:08]** to get you better at each of them.

**[54:10]** The potentially more complicated,

**[54:12]** and you can tell me if I'm doing a good job

**[54:14]** of explaining this page,

**[54:15]** is the quarter finals specific movements are prioritized.

**[54:21]** Let me see how I wanna say this.

**[54:23]** So the quarter finals specific movements are prioritized,

**[54:26]** but we're not gonna stick them like right now,

**[54:30]** for instance, we're doing the deadlift wall walk.

**[54:32]** Each week you're going in and doing that.

**[54:34]** We're not gonna pair movements like that together.

**[54:37]** And we're also not going to go like this many sets

**[54:40]** to this many sets to this many sets.

**[54:42]** It's gonna be, I want muscle ups to show up in intervals

**[54:46]** and met cons and skill want lower amount of reps in a set,

**[54:52]** a ton of sets, I want the opposite,

**[54:55]** all of that different stuff.

**[54:56]** So we're creating the adaptation through variants,

**[55:01]** basically in each and every thing that we do.

**[55:03]** So basically if you looked at a single day of programming,

**[55:07]** you probably wouldn't be able to tell the difference,

**[55:09]** but you guys will definitely be able to tell the difference

**[55:12]** over the course of the whole thing.

**[55:13]** Yeah, I think you can kind of just think of it

**[55:16]** as the rotating stimulus that the lifts are going to go

**[55:19]** through just in a different sense.

**[55:21]** Yeah, exactly.

**[55:21]** So just to kind of give a little bit of a comparison there.

**[55:26]** We also, those quarter-final specific movements,

**[55:29]** there are enough of them that we can't just program

**[55:33]** the same thing over and over.

**[55:34]** So you're gonna have two mandatory skill sessions per week

**[55:37]** that are going to have the movements,

**[55:40]** the muscle ups, the rope climbs, pistols,

**[55:43]** that sort of thing.

**[55:44]** Those are gonna be on their own twice a week.

**[55:46]** We are bringing back,

**[55:48]** this is a staple of competition preps

**[55:50]** called In-Wad Lifting.

**[55:51]** You guys will recognize it when it says

**[55:54]** as part of your warmup for your Metcon,

**[55:56]** work up to a heavy single on this lift

**[55:59]** or a double or drop and reset triple.

**[56:02]** And then we will do the actual weight in the workout.

**[56:06]** When we do it in competition prep though,

**[56:08]** it's almost never a percentage based.

**[56:10]** That will only be in an instance where you need to scale.

**[56:13]** So we'll give you your do not exceed numbers

**[56:15]** when it comes to that.

**[56:16]** But in-wad lifting is essentially just,

**[56:18]** there's a lot of it at the quarterfinals

**[56:20]** and semifinals level where it's like,

**[56:22]** How do you navigate a workout that has a really heavy barbell for low rep or a moderate weight

**[56:29]** barbell for a decent amount of reps?

**[56:32]** We got chippers.

**[56:33]** Don't program a ton of chippers.

**[56:36]** I don't want to throw shots out at other programmers, but the amount of shit that I see in the off

**[56:41]** season where people are doing workouts that have got 19 movements in them, I'm sorry.

**[56:48]** You're going to get a good stimulus.

**[56:49]** not going to get that much better at those movements. We joke that when you're not that

**[56:54]** fit, couplets are the worst thing ever. And we talked about there's a bunch of couplets.

**[56:59]** So I'll just, that's a bit of a side tangent there, but we need to know how to execute

**[57:06]** Chippers. So I personally think of Chippers as straight up athlete IQ tests. You put all

**[57:13]** these variants of movements and this one in there looks like a throwaway and then you

**[57:19]** executed at a high intensity and you realize that it's affecting something that's happening

**[57:24]** later in the workout.

**[57:25]** I'll give you guys some of the answers to the test.

**[57:27]** I am almost always trying to run interference in shippers.

**[57:33]** I want your hip flexors to feel terrible or your grip or your shoulders or just a nasty

**[57:39]** leg burn kind of a workout.

**[57:40]** I'm going to put you in a place that challenges you to figure out the best way to execute

**[57:47]** once you're just not in a good spot, basically.

**[57:51]** Yeah, I think, like you said, you can look at this

**[57:53]** and it looks like a throwaway movement

**[57:56]** or you don't really understand it,

**[57:57]** but you're gonna figure out the intention

**[57:59]** as you work through the workout too.

**[58:03]** Those are the types of workouts where I think

**[58:05]** you have to have the most,

**[58:07]** this is my plan going into it,

**[58:09]** but it's most likely gonna be like,

**[58:10]** okay, I have plan A, but I'm gonna need to maybe

**[58:13]** fall back to plan B or plan C.

**[58:15]** So it's like you have to have that flexibility

**[58:18]** of the athlete IQ to really be able to execute on them.

**[58:22]** But you're definitely gonna learn a lot

**[58:24]** within those pieces.

**[58:25]** Something that's similar but different

**[58:27]** and the exact thing that I was just talking shit about,

**[58:30]** movement, family chippers.

**[58:32]** So we are looking at the type of workout

**[58:35]** where we typically do it in interval fashion,

**[58:38]** where say interval one is toes to bar,

**[58:41]** interval two is chest to bar,

**[58:42]** interval three is bar muscle up.

**[58:44]** that can obviously very easily be flipped.

**[58:46]** And again, athlete IQ is really put to the test here

**[58:51]** and it is a great stimulus.

**[58:52]** So it's not that we don't ever rely on something like this,

**[58:56]** but there are coaches and programmers

**[58:58]** that overcorrect too much related to this.

**[59:01]** And that kind of grunt work, bitch work type thing

**[59:05]** that is a staple of the off season isn't really there.

**[59:08]** Okay, this is one that Paige actually had a very,

**[59:12]** her feedback on programming.

**[59:14]** and I don't remember what season this was.

**[59:16]** Part of me thinks this is the 24 games.

**[59:18]** Yeah, this thing was two years ago.

**[59:20]** She was getting much better stimulus

**[59:23]** in the mixed modality bitch work pieces.

**[59:25]** And if you've ever done mixed modality

**[59:28]** monostructural conditioning,

**[59:29]** just because like for me personally,

**[59:32]** like my legs burn out faster than my lungs do

**[59:37]** on a C2 bike a lot and like my grip and my biceps,

**[59:41]** it's embarrassing to say,

**[59:42]** but on the rower fairly regularly.

**[59:45]** When I get to, you know,

**[59:46]** you have a lot of affiliate workouts that are like that
