---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377"
published: 2025-11-26
episode_number: "377"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits!

**[00:04]** Alright you fat pig, bunch of Misfits!

**[00:08]** You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Making a bunch of Misfits, I understand I understand.

**[00:19]** Good morning Misfits. You are tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast.

**[00:24]** On today's episode, we are taking that deep dive once again into the pool, into the deep end

**[00:31]** of athlete IQ. What does it mean? How do you develop it? How should you think about it if

**[00:36]** you're a coach? What does that coach athlete relationship look like when we're trying to

**[00:40]** develop athlete IQ? Before that, some housekeeping. Wow, this is really, this is weird. There's like

**[00:47]** an echo in this room. It's fucking with me a little bit. Yeah, you can't hear it a tiny bit.

**[00:51]** literal housekeeping for you.

**[00:53]** Oh, yeah.

**[00:54]** Yeah.

**[00:55]** Well, we'll explain what's going on here, people.

**[00:57]** Let's see.

**[00:58]** I'm going to click echo cancellation.

**[00:59]** This cannot be changed while recording.

**[01:01]** Beautiful.

**[01:02]** All right.

**[01:03]** This episode of the podcast is brought to you by, and honestly, my drive across the country

**[01:08]** is brought to you by Gorilla Mind Energy Drink.

**[01:11]** My favorite product from them, or at least currently at the moment after allowing myself

**[01:15]** to have one per day, I could have gotten a little squirrely if I had two per day, one

**[01:18]** per day on the drive.

**[01:20]** So, noticed we have like a portal for our sponsorship,

**[01:24]** and I noticed a bunch of orders, you know,

**[01:25]** with our code coming in last week.

**[01:27]** First and foremost, that's one way for you guys

**[01:29]** to support us and support the podcast.

**[01:31]** That's really cool.

**[01:32]** But secondly, I wanna know what you guys think

**[01:34]** of the products, especially if anybody bought the Intra.

**[01:36]** I still haven't ordered that, I gotta order that.

**[01:38]** It's got carbs, sodium, and creatine.

**[01:43]** And it's Black Friday sale right now,

**[01:45]** and everything in the store is either 20, 30, or 40% off.

**[01:48]** And if you use the code word misfit,

**[01:50]** you get an additional 10% off.

**[01:52]** So we kind of have like this perfect trial period

**[01:55]** for you guys to try this thing out

**[01:56]** and let me know what you think of their products.

**[01:59]** But I'm a huge fan, told a way too long story

**[02:02]** about getting the sponsorship last week on the podcast.

**[02:04]** But go check everything out.

**[02:06]** I definitely recommend the Energy Drink if you are.

**[02:09]** I would say podcast type thing,

**[02:11]** like anything where you really need to be able

**[02:13]** to focus mentally, but then also really big for like,

**[02:17]** I found it awesome for longer bike rides,

**[02:19]** like just kind of staying locked in mentally

**[02:21]** on aerobic type work.

**[02:23]** So, GorillaMind.com forward slash Misfit,

**[02:27]** or just go to Gorilla Mind and use the code

**[02:29]** that you're gonna save 10%

**[02:31]** and you're gonna get 20, 30, or 40% off,

**[02:33]** I think through maybe Monday next week.

**[02:35]** Housekeeping, the next episode of this podcast

**[02:38]** is going to be for the Winjaru,

**[02:40]** Winjiru, I should look up the pronunciation

**[02:42]** before that podcast.

**[02:44]** Misfit affiliate phase,

**[02:45]** So Hunter and I will go into everything there.

**[02:48]** And it's perfect timing to jump in on the free trial

**[02:50]** to be able to see the beginning of all that

**[02:52]** and sort of get an understanding for your affiliate

**[02:55]** what everything looks like, how we deliver information,

**[02:58]** what the documents look like.

**[02:59]** I personally would never recommend someone,

**[03:02]** you know, Sunday night of Winjaru logging in and doing that.

**[03:06]** So that's one of the reasons

**[03:07]** why we keep the two week free trial year round.

**[03:09]** Because even if you wanted to start in two weeks,

**[03:12]** I really like someone familiarizing this with themselves,

**[03:15]** emailing me, talking to us in Telegram, all that good stuff.

**[03:18]** So teammisfit.com, click on the Sign Up Now button,

**[03:21]** you get two weeks.

**[03:22]** And that month, the entire month of December is, one,

**[03:25]** it's available if you're a subscriber, but two,

**[03:27]** if you're thinking about it, it's always a lot easier for you,

**[03:31]** your coaching staff, your members,

**[03:33]** to have an idea of what that looks like before you start.

**[03:36]** It's like, yeah, the eighth is day one,

**[03:38]** but that's probably not the day to switch over

**[03:42]** unless you've already taken a look at it.

**[03:44]** worthy of a, that's worthy of a coaches meeting for sure.

**[03:47]** It's sitting down and going over stuff

**[03:48]** and asking your questions and all that good stuff.

**[03:51]** And if you would like to see the PDF version

**[03:53]** instead of being on Sugarwad, StreamFit, or Push Press,

**[03:56]** just shoot me an email, coach at misfitathletics.com.

**[03:58]** I'll get you a two week sample.

**[04:00]** We're in the throes of phase two,

**[04:02]** seeing some really good notes

**[04:03]** from the athletes in Telegram already, which is awesome.

**[04:06]** Link in bio to sign up on Fitter or Strivee.

**[04:09]** Yeah, life chat.

**[04:11]** So if you're watching on YouTube,

**[04:13]** Or you're listening and you hear an echo.

**[04:16]** I'll fix that, don't worry.

**[04:17]** I am in Colorado.

**[04:18]** If you missed last week's episode, I moved to Grand Junction, Colorado, drove across

**[04:23]** the country, survived on Girl of Mine energy drinks, meat sticks and cheese sticks.

**[04:29]** There might have been a chip or two, but...

**[04:31]** Fucking Hank must have been stoked about the diet.

**[04:34]** Let's talk about Hank on the trip.

**[04:36]** He would not eat any of his dinner.

**[04:40]** He had plenty of meat and cheese, don't worry.

**[04:42]** He's just full.

**[04:43]** And he did not pee for 48 hours.

**[04:46]** He was so scared every time I got him out of the car that I was going to leave him that

**[04:50]** he did not pee for two days.

**[04:52]** Don't say that.

**[04:52]** And then he pissed all over the bed at the Holiday Inn Express.

**[04:57]** As God intended.

**[04:58]** I was like, why is he moving around so much?

**[05:00]** And then I was like, what is that?

**[05:02]** A large pool of piss.

**[05:04]** So he peed all over his bed.

**[05:06]** Maybe he peed, did he pee at the, you know, it was the La Quinta that he peed all over

**[05:10]** the bed.

**[05:10]** That's a good boy.

**[05:12]** They charge the same Lakita that we fucking stayed at in Philly?

**[05:16]** I don't think... No, where was I? North Platte, Nebraska. So I'm guessing.

**[05:21]** Yeah, you were.

**[05:22]** Yeah, not a lot of people were there or have been to North Platte, Nebraska. That was part of how

**[05:27]** I had to figure out to drive is I will say though, where you were stopping voice function for chat

**[05:33]** GPT, literally on the highway, click the button. I'm at mile marker 480. I'm probably going to

**[05:39]** to drive for another hour or two, can you find me a pet friendly hotel that's right

**[05:44]** off of I-80 and within five seconds listed out the towns.

**[05:49]** Chat GPT did that?

**[05:50]** Yeah, like voice.

**[05:52]** Wow.

**[05:53]** Yeah.

**[05:54]** Very impressed.

**[05:55]** That's super impressive.

**[05:56]** Because there's like my parents use something, I don't even know, Bring Fido, Fido something.

**[06:00]** They've written some kind of app that tells you about that stuff.

**[06:03]** But luckily there's a lot more hotels now that are friendly with that stuff.

**[06:08]** I don't think any of the trillions of dollars we've spent on infrastructure has made it

**[06:12]** to Ohio in the last 30 years.

**[06:15]** That highway is terrifying.

**[06:17]** It's like this is either 90 or 80.

**[06:21]** They kind of blend together a little bit, but you know, you're driving across Ohio and

**[06:26]** the two outside lanes are concrete basically with like you can see like grass growing out

**[06:31]** of the cracks and then the middle is old asphalt and like while you're driving, you're positive.

**[06:37]** tire is going to explode. It's just like, boom. And it's almost the whole state when

**[06:41]** you cross and it starts and when you get into, I think it's Indiana, it's like perfect.

**[06:48]** What is happening?

**[06:49]** That's the Ohio.

**[06:50]** Yeah, that's the Ohio I had in my head when I was like Masters CrossFit Games, Columbus,

**[06:55]** Ohio.

**[06:56]** I was in that Ohio.

**[06:57]** Yeah, no. See, Columbus is a atrocious representation of Ohio in like the opposite good way. It's

**[07:03]** like, this is phenomenal.

**[07:04]** I always thought it was cool driving through Cleveland because like you're on the lake and there's like the baseball stadium

**[07:10]** You basically feel like you're driving through a city

**[07:13]** Yeah, Ohio you got some problems and then

**[07:17]** Nebraska the speed limit goes up to

**[07:20]** 75 and people drive side-by-side at like 65 dude

**[07:25]** I didn't like it's not like as bad as my road rage as a teenager, but it was I would drive by slowly and just be like

**[07:32]** Hey, what are you doing? What are you? Yeah, yeah, where are you going right now?

**[07:35]** And then I crossed over into Colorado and it was like

**[07:41]** I'm getting I'm doing 90 and I'm getting passed by people and I'm like, yes, I'm home

**[07:46]** Let's go. That's great. I got so lucky to mountain pass basically no traffic. No weather. Nice

**[07:53]** That's good. Just cruised right through and then story of the week

**[07:57]** Yesterday, I get washer and dryer delivered from the Geek Squad from Best Buy.

**[08:04]** The literal Geek Squad?

**[08:06]** The Geek Squad.

**[08:07]** Big truck that just says Geek Squad on the side.

**[08:10]** Hank would not approve security clearance for the two gentlemen.

**[08:14]** Understood.

**[08:15]** Yeah.

**[08:16]** So I closed the door to the laundry room and created a barricade with a bunch of chairs.

**[08:21]** Because if you don't, he'll crawl.

**[08:22]** He'll make his way through the chairs.

**[08:23]** You got to really...

**[08:24]** Yeah.

**[08:25]** He's tactical.

**[08:26]** I'm working on my computer and I hear one of them start screaming and not like,

**[08:33]** ouch, something's wrong, but like something is very, very wrong. And then I hear, sir, sir, sir.

**[08:40]** So I'm like, oh, they're clearly talking to me. And then I think,

**[08:42]** So like clearly talking to Hank got it.

**[08:44]** Yeah, the guy. Yeah, for real. Can we please stay here without you barking?

**[08:48]** And I'm trying to climb over the chairs like, you know, with the barricade you just created.

**[08:53]** Yeah, slow, smooth, smooth as fast was not happening.

**[08:56]** And he's like, Jay, oh my God, Jay, are you okay?

**[08:58]** What's happening?

**[08:59]** And I'm like, oh my God.

**[09:00]** So I open the door.

**[09:01]** Holy shit.

**[09:02]** The gentleman is having a full blown seizure.

**[09:04]** Like one that I've never seen before.

**[09:06]** Whole body convulsions, stuff coming out of his mouth.

**[09:09]** Like it was crazy.

**[09:11]** Wow, fuck.

**[09:13]** So I called 911 and I'm on the phone with them

**[09:15]** for probably 10, 12 minutes while this,

**[09:19]** like he probably had a seizure for like three minutes

**[09:23]** and then was asleep.

**[09:24]** All right.

**[09:24]** My head just down.

**[09:25]** And his friend was trying to talk to him,

**[09:27]** and they were asking me about his breathing

**[09:29]** and all that stuff.

**[09:30]** Then they came and got him.

**[09:31]** But the ambulance took him to the hospital.

**[09:33]** But like, dude.

**[09:35]** God damn.

**[09:37]** And it's funny too, because the neighbors

**[09:39]** were texting my landlord already,

**[09:40]** like whose Jeep is in the driveway.

**[09:42]** And then they were texting like, is he OK?

**[09:47]** There's fire trucks and ambulance at the house.

**[09:49]** Yeah, a fucking new guy here bringing

**[09:51]** in all kinds of trouble.

**[09:52]** Fuck yes. So that was a crazy way to start my first full day.
