---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377"
published: 2025-11-26
episode_number: "377"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:58"
chunk_end: "29:56"
topics: ["Open", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377 - Chunk 3

Episode: [[../episode|Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377]]

## Transcript

**[19:58]** you're out on the competition floor,

**[19:59]** it's a one rep max snatch.

**[20:01]** And it's just like, okay,

**[20:02]** as long as I keep my weight balanced over my forefoot,

**[20:05]** and then I pull and I sweep the bar into my hip,

**[20:07]** and I've got the weight in my heels,

**[20:08]** and I keep the heels down,

**[20:10]** but I also need to extend upward.

**[20:11]** It's like, why, you, like, it's too much, right?

**[20:14]** And in that instance, it's like,

**[20:15]** that's a, that's, that detracts

**[20:17]** from your ability as an athlete.

**[20:19]** So just kind of remembering that like,

**[20:21]** the mind-body experience elements kind of come together

**[20:25]** to create the literal term,

**[20:27]** like into your athlete intelligence quotient.

**[20:30]** Like, are you actually thinking about these things?

**[20:33]** Are you applying them?

**[20:33]** Are you trying to learn?

**[20:35]** And like you kind of alluded to

**[20:36]** in the example you gave with skill,

**[20:39]** it's like, to me, it doesn't necessarily matter

**[20:42]** as much like, hey, are we driving home

**[20:45]** this one working like our ass off

**[20:47]** on this one very specific skill for a long period of time?

**[20:50]** are we broadly applying this kind of skill-based mindset

**[20:55]** to lots of things every time we go out there in training?

**[20:59]** That's less relevant than the fact that as an athlete

**[21:02]** who's trying to get better,

**[21:03]** you're actually thinking about these things

**[21:05]** when it's time to think about them,

**[21:07]** like in training, like in skill sessions.

**[21:09]** And then you also know when it's time to turn that off

**[21:13]** and say like, okay, we're no longer training,

**[21:15]** we are testing, we're competing, whatever.

**[21:17]** It's like, it's the by any means necessary approach

**[21:21]** or there's a little bit less, let's say, eye

**[21:23]** and a little bit more, a little bit less IQ

**[21:25]** and a little bit more athlete.

**[21:26]** Yeah, for sure.

**[21:27]** And the way that I explain bridging that gap

**[21:31]** to athletes who struggle with it is you need to be able

**[21:34]** to coach yourself in low stakes environments.

**[21:38]** And low stakes could be, we're as far away

**[21:41]** from the season starting as possible.

**[21:43]** Low stakes could be warmup, cool down, recovery,

**[21:47]** a zone two session so intensity could be a little bit lower.

**[21:50]** And that's when you can start to add on.

**[21:52]** You don't, you know, the linear progression

**[21:54]** of building yourself up as a student of the game

**[21:57]** should start from a very simple place

**[22:00]** because then you can create that bridge in their mind

**[22:03]** of, hey, you already know all of this stuff.

**[22:05]** All I'm asking you to do is to start to add to it

**[22:08]** and we'll do it slowly, you know,

**[22:10]** and we'll do it through remote coaching notes

**[22:12]** and things of that nature.

**[22:12]** Like, but if you're not open-minded about it,

**[22:15]** if you're not open to the idea of fits,

**[22:17]** I just prefer a coach to tell me what to do every second.

**[22:20]** Then again, it's just doable,

**[22:23]** but it's not gonna be as good as someone, again,

**[22:25]** who's in the same position as you

**[22:27]** that thinks about it in a different way.

**[22:29]** Yeah, for sure.

**[22:30]** All right, I'll let you do the honors here.

**[22:33]** Where does this start?

**[22:35]** Or where would you like to start?

**[22:36]** Because it doesn't really start anywhere.

**[22:38]** It doesn't start anywhere.

**[22:41]** I was thinking about that.

**[22:42]** I figured that question would come up.

**[22:44]** Like, let's, if again, I'll think about it from the, like, the CrossFit pyramid sort

**[22:50]** of thing.

**[22:51]** So it's an actual pyramid.

**[22:52]** And at the base, in my experience, in my mind is the mind element.

**[22:57]** It's like, you can have like a tremendous level of experience.

**[23:01]** You can have, you can be extremely fit from a numbers perspective, but like at the foundation,

**[23:07]** if your brain isn't in it, whether it's, hey, I, you know, I'm, I, I have all the tools,

**[23:12]** I'm not interested in competing. I have all the tools and a lot of experience, but I tend

**[23:17]** to get in my own way. I'm too smart for my own good. I'm not smart. I'm too much of an

**[23:24]** athlete for my own good. I think the experience and the physical capabilities, the only way

**[23:31]** that those line up and come together is if your brain can pull them together. So if I

**[23:36]** If I'm in charge of this design, I might put it at the base, how you put the base as the

**[23:44]** flat side.

**[23:46]** It's a point, so yeah, you can't do it.

**[23:49]** I should turn it even more so that it's like a 45.

**[23:54]** Yeah.

**[23:55]** And you know, I think probably both of us would rather work with, given the choice between

**[24:01]** an athlete who has like a real desire to get better and learn, but has a low, you know,

**[24:08]** they snatch 95 pounds, they like they don't have ring muscle ups yet. That might be an

**[24:13]** extreme example, but you have, but this person really wants to get better and they're willing

**[24:17]** to do what it takes. And they have that kind of like the right mindset, so to speak, that

**[24:22]** athlete is in the long run going to be far more successful than the, you know, Hey, I've

**[24:28]** been to the CrossFit Games three times.

**[24:30]** There's obviously an element of experience

**[24:32]** and physical capability, but yeah,

**[24:36]** I'll listen to you sometimes,

**[24:38]** but I think I know what's best here.

**[24:40]** It's like, yeah, I know you're trying to teach me

**[24:42]** how to climb rope, but my way, I think,

**[24:45]** is a little bit better.

**[24:45]** So it's like, okay, congratulate.

**[24:48]** I can only do so much for that athlete.

**[24:51]** And they're also just not, that's not particularly fun

**[24:53]** to work with as a coach, right?

**[24:55]** It's like, what the fuck am I doing here?

**[24:57]** if you know so much, like why are you paying a coach?

**[25:00]** So I think just like as an athlete,

**[25:02]** like you have to understand that too.

**[25:04]** And I have to imagine a lot of coaches are like that,

**[25:07]** but I'm sure there are some who would happily work

**[25:09]** with like somebody who's low, you know,

**[25:12]** who's just like, yeah, I'm just gonna do it

**[25:14]** and you can call me your coach

**[25:16]** and that's good for me and good for you and whatever.

**[25:19]** But for the most part-

**[25:21]** That's a young man's game, what you're describing there.

**[25:23]** And honestly, what's complicated about my job

**[25:27]** and not just my job as a coach,

**[25:29]** but my job as a business owner.

**[25:31]** Because the reason I get so pumped about going on

**[25:35]** to Telegram is because there's this group

**[25:37]** of a dozen or so athletes that are super active in there.

**[25:41]** And you can just see the athlete IQ,

**[25:44]** you can see the buy-in,

**[25:45]** you can see the buy-in to the community.

**[25:47]** And those are the athletes that I feel proud,

**[25:52]** like if they go to a competition,

**[25:53]** they're wearing a Misfit t-shirt.

**[25:55]** I am much more-

**[25:56]** Regardless of where they finish, right?

**[25:58]** Yes, I'm drawn to those people

**[26:00]** and want to help those people significantly more

**[26:03]** than a very high level athlete where we don't have.

**[26:07]** And honestly, I can put it in the perspective

**[26:08]** of just listen to the rest of the episode.

**[26:11]** Like if you're not on board for this

**[26:12]** and my patience for that gets lower and lower and lower

**[26:16]** as they go on.

**[26:18]** And it's just like, hey, I work with top 10

**[26:22]** CrossFit Games athletes and I help people

**[26:25]** on the GPP program and everywhere in between.

**[26:28]** And the common denominator of whether I'm like bought in

**[26:32]** to helping you, whether you're giving us 20 bucks a month

**[26:35]** or $400 a month for remote coaching is your attitude

**[26:40]** and your coachability and things of that nature.

**[26:42]** Like that's what I'm drawn to

**[26:43]** and that's what I get excited about.

**[26:45]** So gone are the days of like some randal walking

**[26:48]** into the gym and like doing a muscle up

**[26:51]** and being like, oh my God, amazing.

**[26:52]** It's like, yeah, I don't care.

**[26:54]** Oops.

**[26:54]** I did a command F last week and we went from one F word to 18

**[27:00]** That really makes me wonder what the count was like three weeks ago before we yeah, can I?

**[27:07]** Do it. Let's we should do that next week

**[27:10]** I'm gonna give everybody my golf stats for the year and you can give everybody the fucking

**[27:15]** Clucking clucking the swear stats for yeah

**[27:19]** Yeah. Yeah. That's a great distraction.

**[27:22]** Like, I have too many things to do over the next week.

**[27:26]** Let me do this.

**[27:27]** Count all of the times we score.

**[27:28]** Count all of the swears in the last bit of the podcast and average them out.

**[27:32]** All right.

**[27:32]** You could put command F that and then just toss all those stats into chat GPT.

**[27:36]** Get them to do a quick, nice quick regression analysis.

**[27:41]** We peak on F words when the...

**[27:43]** I would like to see if it's like a correlation between like winter socks or like it's during

**[27:49]** the open or like what time of year does it's a phase podcast. It's a like, yeah, that would be

**[27:56]** all right. Yeah, figured out. I'm gonna put you I'm gonna put you on the spot again, but only

**[28:01]** because you coined one of my favorite terms and concepts. We actually talked about it recently.

**[28:06]** One of our podcasts that we did. So the subheadings for mind are maturity,

**[28:11]** patience, expectations, dedication, and life.

**[28:15]** And when we talked about maturity,

**[28:17]** you talked about it as just a thing and a concept

**[28:22]** that didn't really cross my mind.

**[28:24]** And now it's the only thing that comes to mind,

**[28:26]** really, when I think about maturity,

**[28:27]** and that's the idea of the maturity meter.

**[28:29]** I don't know how much of it that you remember,

**[28:32]** if you want like a little overview.

**[28:34]** If you have the brief overview,

**[28:36]** you could jog the memory

**[28:37]** and I can run my mouth on it for a second.

**[28:39]** I do remember it, but it's been a minute.

**[28:41]** You basically just said that maturity is actually a bunch of small decisions that get added

**[28:50]** together and when you start making decisions that are going to positively influence you,

**[28:56]** kind of that tiny habits concept, the maturity meter keeps going up as you add those things.

**[29:02]** So it's not this massive thing like, you know, I used to be an impulsive teenager and now

**[29:08]** all of a sudden I need to snap my fingers and be stowing.

**[29:10]** It was like as an athlete specifically,

**[29:12]** and honestly I think in life, stacking these little things,

**[29:15]** this linear progression mindset,

**[29:18]** and then all of a sudden you become more mature.

**[29:21]** Yeah, no, I think it's the,

**[29:23]** yeah, I was thinking like the tiny habits,

**[29:25]** and I think it's like, it's the same ideas,

**[29:28]** the concept that you might have with like,

**[29:30]** in my world for the affiliate athlete,

**[29:32]** where it's like, hey, I want to improve my health,

**[29:35]** my fitness, I actually had a,

**[29:37]** This might be a good example, is that I had a member text me

**[29:40]** and basically was saying like,

**[29:42]** hey, my doctor's letting me know that I have a couple of blood markers

**[29:47]** that are elevated out of whack and it's actually like,

**[29:51]** this is the time that it's making me nervous.

**[29:54]** It's like, fuck, I need to do this.
