---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377"
published: 2025-11-26
episode_number: "377"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:56"
chunk_end: "49:53"
topics: ["Open", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377]]

## Transcript

**[39:56]** well, I can do something hard

**[39:57]** because I know it's going to be hard.

**[39:59]** It's the unknown element and that expectation of like,

**[40:03]** you know, or again, it comes down to the unknown.

**[40:06]** But if it's prefaced by like,

**[40:08]** hey, I need you to understand something,

**[40:10]** if you work really hard, we have some patience and maturity,

**[40:13]** we work on these couple things,

**[40:15]** I think that with time,

**[40:16]** you could be a CrossFit Games athlete,

**[40:18]** but it's going to take a shitload of work.

**[40:20]** It's going to be really difficult.

**[40:22]** And if you're on board, I am, it's like, okay,

**[40:25]** it's all out on the table.

**[40:26]** And now it becomes just a yes or no.

**[40:28]** Like, yep, I do have, I do think that I, you know,

**[40:30]** I want to give it a shot or like, maybe,

**[40:33]** maybe this isn't for me, but the fact that it's out there

**[40:36]** and it's like, it's just, it's spoken.

**[40:38]** It's no longer in your head.

**[40:40]** It's, it's been spoken as gospel.

**[40:42]** It's like, okay, great.

**[40:44]** We can step forward from there.

**[40:45]** That concept is like deserves to be screamed

**[40:49]** from the mountaintops weekly.

**[40:51]** Like understanding, accepting what's gonna happen.

**[40:53]** And one of my favorite instances is working

**[40:56]** with an athlete and being at a competition

**[40:58]** and they have a long couplet or triplet

**[41:01]** kind of classic MGW with running in it.

**[41:04]** And every round you get back to the running

**[41:07]** and you're gonna run faster in that context

**[41:10]** than you ever have in your life.

**[41:11]** But because running has less localized muscle fatigue

**[41:17]** and it's got that effort element to it,

**[41:19]** I feel the same way about the skier.

**[41:21]** I know a lot of people say that their triceps burn out

**[41:23]** or whatever, but when I'm running or skiing,

**[41:26]** I just, you have those moments

**[41:28]** where you're kind of battling with yourself.

**[41:30]** Whereas water machines for me often,

**[41:31]** I'm just like, dude, I could try as hard as I wanted to

**[41:33]** right now and it's not gonna matter, to push.

**[41:36]** So that idea of, you're gonna be at like RPE seven

**[41:41]** in round one and we got five rounds.

**[41:43]** And every time you go run,

**[41:45]** you gotta run as fast or faster

**[41:48]** and accept that it's gonna hurt a little bit more.

**[41:50]** Every single time you go run and you're gonna,

**[41:54]** you thought that you knew what your gears were

**[41:58]** and your RPE was and then somehow you're at an 11

**[42:01]** on a scale of 10, so we've reordered, we've understood

**[42:04]** there's a different place that you can go.

**[42:06]** But it's one of my favorite things

**[42:07]** to have that conversation of.

**[42:09]** It's like every round when you start running,

**[42:11]** It's like, all right, I'm off the rope climbs

**[42:13]** and back squats or whatever,

**[42:15]** and I'm just kind of ready to go again.

**[42:17]** Once you get back into your pace,

**[42:21]** stay there and swim around in the fact

**[42:24]** that it's gonna hurt really bad.

**[42:25]** And that's okay, that's how it's supposed to feel.

**[42:28]** And then you can start to strategize around that.

**[42:31]** Once the understanding is there, it's like,

**[42:33]** okay, so how do we get around that?

**[42:35]** Well, you give yourself the first 50 to 100 meters

**[42:39]** to feel sad for yourself,

**[42:40]** and then like you have to get going.

**[42:43]** And again, it's just a conversation of like,

**[42:46]** hey, like based on our goal,

**[42:49]** our expectation for this phase, this specific event,

**[42:53]** this is what has to happen.

**[42:55]** If you execute what has to happen, this will suck.

**[42:58]** This will be hard, but I know you can do it.

**[43:00]** Let's have an appropriate strategy.

**[43:02]** We've got our, you know, gears matrix.

**[43:03]** So we know how fast you're supposed to be running.

**[43:06]** You just need to understand that it's going to be difficult,

**[43:08]** but it is executable and if you execute it,

**[43:11]** it will result in the best possible case scenario

**[43:14]** for the specific event phase, whatever it happens to be.

**[43:17]** But a lot of times it's just getting the elephant

**[43:20]** in the room out there and then like,

**[43:22]** let's figure out how to make this thing actually work.

**[43:24]** I'm gonna set the spectrum for expectations at one side

**[43:28]** as that person who has a very reachable goal

**[43:31]** that puts it out like seven years.

**[43:33]** Like I'm gonna qualify for quarter finals in 2029.

**[43:37]** And it's like, okay, well, maybe we'll speed that timeline up a little bit.

**[43:41]** And then we have the fully delusional, I'm going to win the CrossFit Games.

**[43:45]** And I haven't made it to semi-finals yet.

**[43:48]** Like that kind of thing.

**[43:49]** Obviously we don't want to live in either one of those places and our expectations

**[43:54]** need to reflect different periods of time and where we're currently at.

**[43:59]** Like I really like an athlete that has that longer term big goal, but it's like,

**[44:04]** okay, last year I was 25th at semi-finals.

**[44:06]** This year, I want to be sniffing around that top with those top athletes.

**[44:10]** So you had those expectations that are like needs.

**[44:13]** Now, if you want the flow state, if you want to believe in what you're doing, it needs

**[44:16]** to be out of reach.

**[44:18]** It needs to feel a little scary.

**[44:20]** It can't be safe because then I don't think you're going to demand as much of yourself.

**[44:25]** You're going to kind of slot closer to that person that's pushing it off a little bit

**[44:28]** too much.

**[44:30]** But expectations are extremely important.

**[44:33]** Again, micro macro.

**[44:34]** So what are my expectations of this piece I'm doing today or this lift I'm about to

**[44:37]** do?

**[44:38]** Or like, what is my sort of long term goal?

**[44:41]** And something that will come up here in a couple of bullet points that's important is

**[44:46]** who is allowed to tell you what the expectations are.

**[44:51]** And the answer literally is just you and people that you've decided are allowed in that bubble

**[44:57]** and no one else, right?

**[44:58]** It's not the barbell spin.

**[45:00]** It's not, you know, Hiller.

**[45:01]** It's not any of these people.

**[45:03]** It's not your fucking annoying, it could be a parent,

**[45:07]** could be a brother, sister, could be whoever.

**[45:09]** That's just like, oh, you came in third?

**[45:11]** Like, it's like, I'm the third fittest person, what?

**[45:15]** Like, there's like that level, that portion,

**[45:19]** understanding where your expectations come from

**[45:22]** is also massive.

**[45:24]** Yeah, I think like, again, that's a conversation

**[45:26]** that you have to have with kind of the,

**[45:29]** a coach, like obvious, but the broader kind of

**[45:33]** archetype is an unbiased third party, right?

**[45:35]** It's somebody who can like sanity check it

**[45:38]** and make sure that it's like, it's both realistic

**[45:40]** and it's like, it's not on one kind of extreme or the other

**[45:43]** cause right, cause the goal is like,

**[45:45]** it's very similar to how you might train

**[45:48]** in order to get better, right?

**[45:49]** It's not, okay, I'm an affiliate athlete,

**[45:52]** wanna go to semi-finals, therefore I'm going to my ex,

**[45:56]** like I'm gonna do semi-finals workouts, right?

**[45:59]** That's not how it works.

**[46:00]** Like you don't, we don't do that.

**[46:02]** having somebody who's there to audit what those expectations are and establish,

**[46:08]** hey, is this actually realistic?

**[46:09]** Cuz all expectations are kind of like it's a goal without,

**[46:14]** I don't know, without additional thought to it, I guess is how I kind of think about

**[46:19]** that. But having those expectations and

**[46:22]** then the additional step of having somebody who's able to say, okay,

**[46:27]** I don't know how you might differentiate a goal versus an expectation, but

**[46:32]** might be a good question, just generally like-

**[46:36]** I'm annoyed by Samantha's.

**[46:37]** That's another thing that annoys me as I get later on in life.

**[46:41]** Sometimes we get, that's why I joked about the order of this.

**[46:45]** We actually probably rewind eight years and we might have argued over it.

**[46:49]** Probably.

**[46:50]** Yeah, which is good because then obviously you're drumming up other ideas and

**[46:54]** everything like that.

**[46:55]** But at the end of the day, some part of us knows that it's where you need to start.

**[47:00]** It could be any of these places because they're a bridge to another one, that sort of thing.

**[47:04]** Yeah.

**[47:05]** When it comes to that stuff, like when people argue whether an audio book is reading, it's

**[47:09]** like if I spent my time arguing about something like that, I might perish.

**[47:14]** Sure.

**[47:15]** I can't want it.

**[47:16]** Yeah, the expectations or goal, and then that obviously ties into the dedication element.

**[47:23]** it's like, hey, you know, part of the expectation is establishing.

**[47:27]** Okay.

**[47:27]** So is the, let's say that the expectation is it's not completely ridiculous.

**[47:32]** It's within the realm of possibility.

**[47:34]** It then comes down to the conversation of like, well, so here are the things

**[47:38]** that you need to be willing to sacrifice in order to obtain that, right?

**[47:43]** Because without a level of sacrifice, the goal is insufficient to

**[47:48]** like truly dedicate and work towards.

**[47:50]** So like, hey, so we want to go to semi-finals.

**[47:54]** Okay, here are like three things that are going to happen.

**[47:58]** You need to block out three hours a day to train.

**[48:01]** You need to block out nine hours a night to sleep.

**[48:04]** And I need you to track every single thing that you eat.

**[48:07]** And it's like, if that athlete has never ever slept

**[48:11]** nine hours a night in their entire life,

**[48:14]** or has never tracked their food,

**[48:16]** or has never trained done more than like

**[48:18]** a one hour affiliate class.

**[48:20]** We now know that like, okay,

**[48:22]** this is, that's either an overwhelming,

**[48:25]** it's either not the correct goal or the expectation,

**[48:28]** or we then need to kind of break that further

**[48:30]** into its component parts and kind of apply

**[48:32]** maybe the maturity meter.

**[48:33]** It's like, okay, well, we're gonna block out.

**[48:35]** I need you to train, you take your affiliate class, great.

**[48:38]** And then I need two days a week

**[48:40]** where we're doing some extra training.

**[48:41]** And then it's eventually a third day a week.

**[48:43]** And hey, I need you to track your macros one day per week.

**[48:47]** and then we can build incrementally on that.

**[48:49]** But outlining kind of the, here's the big goal.

**[48:53]** Well, within that goal, there are a whole bunch

**[48:55]** of bullet points that need to be hit

**[48:57]** in order to obtain that goal.

**[48:58]** Having the conversation of, one, is it reasonable

**[49:02]** for you to try to reach for these,

**[49:03]** like to check these things off?

**[49:05]** And two, do you even want to, right?

**[49:08]** We have this conversation all the time.

**[49:09]** It's like, I wanna be a CrossFit Games athlete.

**[49:11]** It's like, no, what you want is to walk out onto the field

**[49:16]** or into the stadium alongside a whole bunch

**[49:19]** of other fit athletes with people cheering your name

**[49:22]** and you got a cool CrossFit Games jersey on your shirt.

**[49:24]** Like that's what you want.

**[49:26]** What you don't want is to do the fucking hundreds

**[49:29]** and hundreds of hours in order to realize that goal

**[49:32]** for like 60 seconds and then go get your ass whooped

**[49:37]** in an event at the CrossFit Games.

**[49:39]** It's like, there's a very big difference between, you know,

**[49:43]** kind of the picture that you have in your head of the goal

**[49:48]** and what it takes to actually get there.

**[49:50]** And that's our segue to dedication, right?
