---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377"
published: 2025-11-26
episode_number: "377"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:53"
chunk_end: "59:53"
topics: ["Open", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377 - Chunk 6

Episode: [Building Athlete IQ: What is it. How do you develop it. How is it different for coaches and athletes at all levels. - E.377](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:53]** Like, the hunterism that I remember from our last episode

**[49:57]** is go stand in front of the mirror by yourself

**[50:00]** and say, I want to be across a games athlete.

**[50:02]** And then you spend 360 degrees and you list out the things

**[50:05]** that it takes to get there and you answer

**[50:07]** whether you're willing to do them or not,

**[50:09]** because that's what that means.

**[50:10]** And really what we're looking for,

**[50:13]** for your dedication to match your expectations.

**[50:17]** That's all it is.

**[50:18]** So everyone listening to this podcast is like,

**[50:20]** I want to be this body fat percentage.

**[50:22]** I want a 400 pound back squat.

**[50:24]** It'd be really cool if I could sign up for a 5K

**[50:26]** and not come in last.

**[50:27]** I want to make it to quarterfinals.

**[50:29]** I want to win the cross.

**[50:30]** Whatever it is, we need those,

**[50:33]** we need the maturity of the patients,

**[50:34]** the expectations to match the level of dedication.

**[50:39]** Like it's almost, I mean, it's almost kind of as simple as that, right?

**[50:43]** Like we're talking through and we will in the rest of the episode what it means to be

**[50:47]** dedicated.

**[50:48]** But if you're listening, you like some part of you knows better and knows whether you

**[50:53]** are above or below that line based on what you're trying to accomplish.

**[50:57]** Yeah.

**[50:58]** And I mean, to like, it's kind of intentional or not, these tie in nicely like the dedication.

**[51:03]** So we have, let's say that you do have a whole lot of these kind of components checked off

**[51:09]** and are like, hey, so far we're all green lights here.

**[51:13]** It's like, does your actual, does your life allow for this to happen?

**[51:17]** So for me personally, like right now it's like my, okay, I would, I would love to be

**[51:22]** a scratch golfer.

**[51:23]** I have the maturity, I can coach myself to a certain extent.

**[51:27]** I may not have the resources to pay, like to pay a coach, but I'll get a lesson from

**[51:32]** time to time.

**[51:33]** I'm willing to practice.

**[51:34]** I'm, you know, I want to practice.

**[51:36]** I enjoy all of this.

**[51:37]** I understand this is a slow process, but I only have two days a week to

**[51:42]** legitimately dedicate to playing golf.

**[51:44]** And it's like, man, you can have all of those things, but if life doesn't

**[51:49]** allow for that to happen, like, Hey, if you can't go out and chip and putt for

**[51:54]** like at least 45 minutes to an hour a day for the next year, and then in the

**[51:59]** winter go in and hit golf balls into a plastic screen and film yourself. It's like having

**[52:04]** all of those things, but not literally figuratively having the time and the lifestyle, the support

**[52:12]** structure, whatever it is to actually go into those. That might just turn it into a longer

**[52:20]** time horizon, right? It's like I've got the right attitude. I've got all of the dedication

**[52:25]** and the expectations are right, maybe I need to adjust the time horizon.

**[52:29]** That's a different conversation.

**[52:30]** But what it comes down to is like, does, can you actually, you know, there's lots of people

**[52:35]** listening who would love to be in a CrossFit gym for three, four, five hours a day exercising.

**[52:40]** Is that actually practically reasonable for you?

**[52:43]** Like, maybe for some of you, but maybe not.

**[52:46]** And then like that final kind of like thing is wildly important to like literally just

**[52:52]** the logistics of all of it.

**[52:54]** And I think the parallel that maybe more people will understand here is let's say you made

**[52:58]** that goal and you were making enough money to have that goal and you made the time for

**[53:02]** it and your significant other was pissed off at you every single Saturday and Sunday you

**[53:09]** spent on the golf course.

**[53:10]** Even if you still do it, that not having that system around you is going to take a major

**[53:16]** shot at it.

**[53:17]** It's not just that you're like, you know what, screw you, I'm going to go golf or CrossFit.

**[53:23]** It's not just that, it's the turmoil and the gas tank being sapped.

**[53:27]** And I hope she doesn't mind and maybe I'll ask and take this out.

**[53:32]** But just an amazing example of this and something that I'm super pumped about is McKenna is

**[53:37]** going part time in her job to train more.

**[53:40]** And this was...

**[53:41]** Nice.

**[53:42]** This was brought on by the support of her now husband, Wyatt, fellow misfit.

**[53:49]** Great.

**[53:50]** and really pushed for it.

**[53:52]** Because again, we talked about it in relation to me moving

**[53:55]** or you buying the gym.

**[53:56]** A lot of people don't feel like they have permission

**[53:58]** to make big changes in their life

**[54:00]** because it's just too much

**[54:01]** and maybe they grew up in a more conservative family

**[54:04]** and it's the clock in, clock out,

**[54:07]** and you march to the beat and you get in your car

**[54:10]** and you drive home and you just do what you're supposed to do.

**[54:12]** What society has decided that you should do.

**[54:15]** And I don't know how much of her thought

**[54:19]** that this was like a long-term dream,

**[54:21]** but just knowing that the person

**[54:23]** that is there with her daily is not only supportive of it,

**[54:27]** but like pushed for it and championed the concept

**[54:30]** is the ultimate representation of what we're talking about

**[54:33]** with that support system.

**[54:35]** And I wanna be very clear,

**[54:37]** and I'll just use this as an example

**[54:39]** because there's a million other examples.

**[54:41]** There's friends, parents, significant others,

**[54:43]** all these different things, but it's not just on them.

**[54:45]** If you don't tell them how important this is to you

**[54:49]** or what you're trying to accomplish,

**[54:51]** or do your part in some other place in the relationship,

**[54:57]** then it's also on you.

**[54:58]** You have to set those expectations,

**[54:59]** you have to put it out there.

**[55:01]** You are not asking for permission not to show up at all

**[55:04]** in a personal relationship.

**[55:05]** That's, we're back to the maturity meter here.

**[55:08]** So it's on both sides, right?

**[55:11]** And again, I think it wraps up this whole side

**[55:14]** the conversation of like, as we work our way down this list, we have to be able to check

**[55:20]** the boxes in relation to what we're trying to accomplish. And then what is needed within

**[55:26]** each category to actually make them happen. And the lifestyle of a CrossFit Games athlete

**[55:32]** or semi finals athlete or honestly, even a quarterfinals athlete has some very specific

**[55:37]** demands. And you're not going to be able to work your way around them over a long time

**[55:42]** horizon. It's just not gonna happen.

**[55:43]** Yeah, I think that final, the support structure again, all pretty much everything up to this

**[55:48]** point are things that you are either analyzing on your own as an athlete or maybe you have

**[55:54]** a coach helping you, but at the end of the day, it is very much kind of, it's much easier

**[56:00]** to control the things that you can control, right?

**[56:03]** But there are second and third order effects, like you said.

**[56:06]** It's like, okay, well, I can train four hours a day and a couple of those hours are going

**[56:12]** to be from 6 to 8 p.m. What does that do to the home life? What does that do to the

**[56:18]** boyfriend, girlfriend, spouse, whatever it happens, situation it happens to be? And does

**[56:25]** that start to create friction, resentment, whatever? And all of a sudden it doesn't really

**[56:30]** matter if you've got everything in line, but if you're not getting the support that you

**[56:34]** need. And this is the tough thing about this because this is kind of a, especially like

**[56:40]** the more, the bigger the goal, right? The larger the sacrifice across the board, that it just kind

**[56:47]** of how it works and not feeling like you have that support. I feel like that's one part of it.

**[56:53]** That's cool. It's complex in scope, but it's very simple. Like the life of a, like talk about

**[57:00]** punching the clock, like the life of a CrossFit Games athlete is you just need to buy in and your

**[57:07]** life needs to support this concept. But at that point, it's like, like one of the conversations

**[57:12]** I have to have with people once they have more free time is like, we're gonna go harder

**[57:16]** and recover harder. I'm not going to give you a mountain of volume. It doesn't make

**[57:20]** any sense. Like you're gonna get you're gonna notice how much fitter you can get with, you

**[57:24]** know, nine hours of sleep and like, not feeling guilty when you relax between sessions and

**[57:29]** things like

**[57:30]** Alright, misfits, we got to pause for just a second here. I don't know if there's a name

**[57:33]** for jet lag related to driving across the country and moving, but there should be.

**[57:38]** I forgot two important things at the beginning of the episode.

**[57:40]** Number one is early bird pricing for camp at CrossFit routes in Boulder, Colorado, January

**[57:47]** 30th through February 1st ends in five days.

**[57:50]** You guys can still sign up after that, but you're going to have to pay $50.

**[57:53]** We do the early bird pricing to try to get a really good idea of how many people are

**[57:57]** going to be at camp so we can have the appropriate staff ready.

**[58:01]** No matter what, going to be a fantastic staff.

**[58:03]** But head to the link and buy on Instagram, get signed up for camp.

**[58:07]** It's going to be absolutely incredible.

**[58:09]** It's a beautiful place to be, especially in the winter, Boulder, Colorado.

**[58:13]** And yeah, go get signed up.

**[58:14]** Second, rain or shine collection.

**[58:16]** You guys have been asking.

**[58:17]** We've been teasing it a little bit.

**[58:18]** Finally came up with a design that I really like.

**[58:21]** Feels appropriate with it being a very black and white topic and black and white design

**[58:26]** to have it be on Black Friday.

**[58:29]** So sharpentheactco.com, everything on the site that is not new is going to be 30% off,

**[58:34]** which really means 40% off if you know your athlete codes.

**[58:37]** We always want to make sure that we're throwing our ambassadors a bone.

**[58:41]** So if you know your athlete codes, your favorite athletes, if you don't know them, ask them

**[58:44]** on Instagram, but it's going to be 30% off and then you're going to be able to add the

**[58:48]** code to add 10% off.

**[58:49]** And we're going to discount the Rainer Shine collection as well.

**[58:52]** The Rainer Shine collection is a pre-sale for a very specific reason.

**[58:56]** For one, the amount of messages that we get, especially during a sale, that are like, what

**[59:00]** the frick?

**[59:01]** You don't have my size.

**[59:02]** You guys never have my size.

**[59:04]** You guys never have small, medium, large, extra large.

**[59:07]** Or I don't want a hoodie.

**[59:08]** I want a crew.

**[59:09]** I don't want a long sleeve.

**[59:10]** I want a t-shirt.

**[59:11]** I don't want a t-shirt.

**[59:12]** I want a crop.

**[59:13]** So we can do all of those things.

**[59:15]** And we've got some sweatpants in there as well.

**[59:18]** So you can kind of get the full set heading into winter with the sweatpants and the sweatshirts.

**[59:24]** I'm really excited about the collection.

**[59:25]** I think the design is sick.

**[59:27]** And I also think that that ethos and that concept,

**[59:30]** especially this time of year, is incredibly important.

**[59:32]** So if you want to support Misfit Athletics,

**[59:34]** support the podcast.

**[59:35]** That is another way.

**[59:36]** SharpenTheActsCode.com.

**[59:37]** We will run the presale from Black Friday through Cyber Monday.

**[59:42]** And you can stock up on t-shirts and socks and things

**[59:45]** of that nature for 40% off if you know your athlete codes.

**[59:48]** All right, back to the episode.

**[59:49]** All right, we are going to jump to Experience next.
