---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "A CrossFitter's Guide to Zone 2: What it is, what it does, how you do it, and if YOU should - E.386"
published: 2026-02-04
episode_number: "386"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:59"
chunk_end: "19:57"
topics: ["Open", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# A CrossFitter's Guide to Zone 2: What it is, what it does, how you do it, and if YOU should - E.386 - Chunk 2

Episode: [A CrossFitter's Guide to Zone 2: What it is, what it does, how you do it, and if YOU should - E.386](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:59]** I'll start with my watch.

**[10:00]** And again, it's gonna kind of be camp recap.

**[10:02]** We got a lot of analyzing.

**[10:05]** We did some Friday Night Lights, did some snatching.

**[10:08]** So just some video on watching the athletes move.

**[10:12]** Again, I'll give another shout out when we talk about camp

**[10:15]** in relation to that.

**[10:16]** My read and listen, I'm gonna go with

**[10:19]** some motivational interviewing stuff.

**[10:21]** So I kind of been getting a little bit more into that.

**[10:24]** I like to think about how like, you know,

**[10:27]** you and Hunter can really kind of bring like

**[10:29]** the super nerdy side to CrossFit and I'm the athlete.

**[10:34]** So like to really kind of bring another type of perspective,

**[10:39]** I've been like really looking into like motivational

**[10:43]** interviewing in terms of sports.

**[10:45]** So Jonathan Fader has a book,

**[10:47]** it's called Coaching Athletes to be Their Best.

**[10:49]** I was reading up a little bit on it, I haven't bought it yet

**[10:53]** but I think that might be like my first book of choice

**[10:56]** in checking it out.

**[10:58]** And really it talks about, you know,

**[10:59]** building trust with your athletes and things like that.

**[11:01]** And that just really resonates with me

**[11:03]** because I feel like I am more of like,

**[11:06]** I need more of the psychology side to it.

**[11:09]** Like I have all the ability to do the thing and perform,

**[11:14]** but you know, the head space is just so important.

**[11:18]** Sure, absolutely.

**[11:18]** And there was a quote, yeah, there was a quote.

**[11:20]** It was, if the only tool you have is a hammer,

**[11:22]** then everything looks like a nail.

**[11:24]** And I think, you know,

**[11:25]** we've mentioned that kind of stuff before.

**[11:27]** Crossfitters know all about that.

**[11:29]** Yeah.

**[11:30]** But I even think of it in terms of us as coaches, right?

**[11:32]** Like what do we all bring to the table and how can we kind of widen our own perspective

**[11:37]** on that?

**[11:38]** So I think with having camp that really kind of sparked my interest even more than going

**[11:42]** into the weeds on it.

**[11:43]** It's nice.

**[11:44]** Yeah.

**[11:45]** Cool.

**[11:46]** All right.

**[11:47]** So a little bit of a camp recap here.

**[11:49]** So again, we were at Crossfit Roots in Boulder over the weekend and we've teased it a little

**[11:55]** bit, but we just had the kind of weekend that just, I've said it before, it reminds me of

**[12:04]** watching Mighty Ducks and then wanting to go play street hockey afterwards. Those moments

**[12:08]** where the thing that you do is just like so all encompassing and it's like equal parts motivating

**[12:16]** and it kind of revitalizes you and it sets you up for the next thing. Making sure that you have

**[12:22]** moments like that and it could be going to the CrossFit Games to spectate and be like,

**[12:27]** I could do this or a training camp or a competition. There's all kinds of different

**[12:33]** things that can do this for you. But from the coaching perspective, being around other people

**[12:39]** that are passionate about the thing that you're passionate about, especially for me running an

**[12:44]** online business where no offense to anybody but program hoppers and like,

**[12:50]** like, what is so great about what you do that other people don't do?

**[12:56]** And if I have that conversation or I'm trying to resonate with someone that speaks my language

**[13:04]** a little bit more, is interested in the things that I'm interested in, it's second nature

**[13:08]** for me to talk through that.

**[13:11]** The thing that comes to mind is talking to affiliate owners about whether they should

**[13:15]** to follow Misfit affiliate.

**[13:16]** And I know within the first five minutes,

**[13:18]** whether this is someone who is going to be a long time

**[13:22]** customer is gonna ask me for help and communicate

**[13:24]** and all of that stuff.

**[13:26]** And just knowing that those other passionate people

**[13:31]** are out there and there are people that have a ton

**[13:33]** of knowledge already or a ton of experience already

**[13:36]** that are still open-minded is something that I need a lot

**[13:39]** and will need even more now that I work remotely

**[13:42]** and I'm not in that kind of an affiliate environment.

**[13:45]** So that was super helpful for me.

**[13:47]** And then I always wanna make sure

**[13:49]** that if you're really putting people up on a pedestal

**[13:52]** that you knock them down a peg.

**[13:53]** The disparity between the skill level,

**[13:57]** fitness level and strength level

**[13:59]** and the campers ability to be in a couch stretch

**[14:03]** was the most staggering

**[14:04]** that I had ever witnessed in my life.

**[14:06]** Typically, I can't get into a couch stretch.

**[14:09]** I also can't climb a rope.

**[14:11]** I can't do muscle ups, I can't snatch, you know, 150 to 250, whatever.

**[14:16]** No, it is possible to check off a lot of boxes and not be

**[14:21]** get getting into a couch stretch.

**[14:23]** And it's like, listen, if K star is going to branch out and do his thing

**[14:27]** and all these other places, I got to bring it back.

**[14:30]** You are begging for major injury or overdoing it in certain muscle groups

**[14:37]** that shouldn't be overdone in a particular workout.

**[14:40]** and you kind of fry out and burn out

**[14:41]** if you cannot spend three minutes per side

**[14:46]** in a couch stretch and not be like in excruciating pain

**[14:49]** or in the ugliest position that I've ever seen.

**[14:52]** So we're like, that's like 50% joke, 50% dead serious.

**[14:58]** Campers for the love of God,

**[15:01]** start doing your couch stretch again,

**[15:02]** you should not need a B, world-class athlete

**[15:04]** should not need a PVC pipe to get up into that position.

**[15:07]** And then if you wanna come to our next camp,

**[15:09]** Start practicing now.

**[15:10]** We can see if we can regress that back to the mean

**[15:13]** a little bit.

**[15:14]** Yeah, it's a fucking requirement for sure.

**[15:15]** Anything to add for camp recap?

**[15:17]** Yeah, I mean, gosh, it was fun.

**[15:21]** So this was my first time on the coach's side of it.

**[15:24]** Like normally I go to camp, I'm part of the athletes,

**[15:26]** I'm hanging out and working out.

**[15:28]** So I've learned that there's a ton of standing around.

**[15:31]** It's very hard to do.

**[15:34]** You better wear the right shoes.

**[15:35]** Yeah, no kidding.

**[15:36]** But it was really cool to see the amount of detail that goes into the movements when we

**[15:42]** do movement breakdown, how well we go over it, explain it, have them moving through it.

**[15:48]** So that was really, really awesome.

**[15:51]** Part of the videos that we've done, just looking through videos, if I recall, his name is Austin.

**[15:57]** Austin Moss.

**[15:58]** Dude took a couple of cues and put 20 pounds on his snatch on Friday night.

**[16:04]** And that was just really awesome to see and kind of be a part of.

**[16:08]** So just really, really good energy there.

**[16:11]** Low rep learners are so fun for coaches, especially in a camp setting.

**[16:14]** Yeah, you can tell he is a strong guy too.

**[16:17]** McKenna PRing her snatch at 205, like it just, you know, you really, really see the best

**[16:25]** in people at a place like this, especially when they all come open minded and ready to

**[16:29]** learn.

**[16:30]** And again, like, you know, again, the coaching staff there, they, they took up a majority

**[16:35]** of our, our members part of camp.

**[16:38]** So just really, really awesome group.

**[16:41]** I agree.

**[16:42]** All right.

**[16:43]** Let's, we're going to start off our, we're going to start off our zone two conversation

**[16:49]** with the history related to misfit athletics with zone two.

**[16:54]** So I would say there was a very small subsection of the CrossFit population in the, I don't

**[17:00]** 2012 to 2014 range that talked about long slow distance.

**[17:07]** So long slow distance was kind of the first iteration of the name related to it.

**[17:12]** That kind of piqued my interest.

**[17:14]** And then revisionist history a little bit, but

**[17:17]** also within the moment we would do things like the weakness warm ups.

**[17:21]** We would have people do longer sessions on machines and

**[17:24]** a lot of that was related to if you've been in CrossFit long enough,

**[17:28]** them following Mikko Seilo around after he won the CrossFit Games because he was a bit

**[17:33]** of an outlier coming in.

**[17:35]** And he was training more like a competitor than anybody else.

**[17:41]** And part of that was like a warm up with, you know, 10, 15, 20 minutes on a rower.

**[17:46]** And that's just like mind blowing to a CrossFitter.

**[17:48]** It's like, I'll die if I'm on a rower for 20 minutes, you crazy.

**[17:52]** And just seeing what that kind of capacity, like sort of that bottom end, that aerobic

**[17:58]** that we'll talk a lot about today, does for an athlete, that's where as a coach, you start

**[18:05]** to see these things happening, you start to reverse engineer it.

**[18:08]** And like I said, for my kind of book of the week, the Mafetone method, which funny enough,

**[18:13]** that was the first time I heard the name Chris Hinshaw, because he's an athlete in the book.

**[18:17]** Interesting.

**[18:18]** And I remember that like, like years later, as he was being introduced to the community,

**[18:21]** I was like, why do I know that name?

**[18:24]** And when I reread the Maffetone Method, there he was.

**[18:26]** And that book really, it just, it was so obvious to me

**[18:31]** that this was missing, dare I say,

**[18:33]** from the CrossFit methodology.

**[18:35]** Like, I don't know if now I have to like take out

**[18:37]** life insurance, the life insurance policy,

**[18:39]** if I say that out loud.

**[18:40]** But definitely in the competitor realm,

**[18:43]** and not because it's so magical and efficacious,

**[18:46]** but it's because like we're doing Fran.

**[18:49]** We're doing these workouts where like most people

**[18:51]** were crashing and burning, and we're just not working that aerobic system, you'd have

**[18:55]** to write a really, really great CrossFit workout that I don't think people back then would

**[19:00]** have known how to execute to really work on the low end there.

**[19:04]** So I bought, it's like Cody Mooney, Sam Kwan, China Cho, like I bought all of them, all

**[19:10]** of my athletes, the Polar Watch and Strap combo, and mailed it to them and enlisted

**[19:18]** a lot of people at Misfit HQ to get going on this.

**[19:21]** And it was really fascinating, the, especially with running, the ego hit and people not wanting

**[19:28]** to do it because they were slow.

**[19:31]** And how counterintuitive that is, is crazy.

**[19:35]** But if you don't understand what it's doing for you, I can see how that would happen.

**[19:40]** Like how could I possibly improve by running 11 minute miles?

**[19:46]** But you need to run 11 minute miles if that's your heart rate when you're running that,

**[19:52]** right?

**[19:53]** That's how we lower that.

**[19:54]** That's how we build that aerobic capacity.
