---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383"
published: 2026-01-14
episode_number: "383"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits!

**[00:04]** Alright you fat, big bunch of Misfits!

**[00:08]** You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said aye's on.

**[00:30]** community. Then we go to social media. And if we have time, we have questions are sort

**[00:35]** of asked throughout the weeks and months that don't always get a kind of long form answer

**[00:41]** from pager eye. So we'll jump into those at the end if we have time. As always, we will

**[00:45]** start the podcast with sponsors, ways to support the podcast, shout outs, read, listen, watch,

**[00:52]** and then we will get into the questions. So there are four ways for you to support what

**[00:56]** we do. Number one is the easiest one, the most important one. Head to the link in bio

**[01:01]** on our social media and get signed up for one of our programs. We have competitor programming

**[01:06]** from the open to quarterfinals to semi-finals and CrossFit Games level athletes. We have our

**[01:11]** GPP program for the everyday athlete working out on their own and we have Misfit affiliate

**[01:16]** for affiliates out there. So yeah, you get signed up for any one of those.

**[01:20]** It is also, we're entering the final countdown here. We're about two weeks out from Misfit

**[01:26]** training camp at CrossFit Roots in Boulder, Colorado, January 30th through February 1st.

**[01:30]** Tickets are still available. We've got a really good size group right now.

**[01:35]** I normally don't shut the ticket sales off until a week out, but if we did get a bunch more here in

**[01:41]** the next week or so, I would probably turn those off just to make sure that we maintain a really

**[01:45]** good coach to athlete ratio. Again, get signed up for that open and quarterfinals prep style camp.

**[01:52]** really cool place to be in the winter. Boulder's beautiful. It's right up against the mountains.

**[01:56]** And flying into Denver this time of year is pretty cool. Although I live in Colorado now,

**[02:00]** and there's no snow. The part of Colorado that I live in doesn't really get snow,

**[02:04]** but apparently the mountains don't have very much either, which is kind of weird mid-January.

**[02:08]** It's weird.

**[02:10]** Last? Well, no, not last but not least. Number three is head to sharpentheaxco.com. There's

**[02:15]** There's still a few items left from the Rain or Shine presale.

**[02:19]** You guys can snag those and we will be dropping at some point in Q1, the SSE racing team powered

**[02:28]** by Rocket Fuel Collection.

**[02:30]** Really excited about this design, excited for you guys to see that.

**[02:34]** Now last but not least, I'm going to be really straightforward with this one.

**[02:38]** So we are sponsored by Gorilla Mind.

**[02:41]** Podcast is sponsored by Gorilla Mind.

**[02:42]** You can head to grillamind.com forward slash misfit or use the codeword misfit to save.

**[02:46]** I think these are the best supplements in the game.

**[02:48]** The guy who started this company was the inspiration for me starting proper, which obviously does

**[02:52]** not exist anymore.

**[02:53]** So kind of back there and I'm going to tell you right now that I am asking you unless you

**[02:58]** buy your supplements at Costco or you buy one of those bags, you know, the size of my

**[03:05]** whole body from Amazon that has all kinds of arsenic and whatnot in it when tested by

**[03:11]** consumer reports, switch over to Gorilla Mind. You're supporting the podcast, you're getting

**[03:15]** really, really high quality supplements. If you're watching on YouTube, right there is

**[03:21]** Gorilla Mode pre-workout. Did a first gear, the first gear, my worst gear, Echo Bike this morning,

**[03:29]** and my RPMs and mindset during the session are different with a scoop of that. So I'm just going

**[03:36]** going to kind of throw that out there. Definitely notice a difference. Guarantee that if I went

**[03:40]** back and did a, you know, one aerobic session, not an or one aerobic session with it, one without it,

**[03:46]** and went back and forth, I would get a higher output at a lower heart rate. Definitely something

**[03:49]** that I've noticed. So grillamind.com, forward slash misfit, switch over, buy your supplements

**[03:54]** from them. They're better. And you support the podcast. Okay, okay, okay, okay. We did it.

**[04:00]** Shoutouts. I want to shout out the people.

**[04:03]** So, the Misfit Mind post this week,

**[04:06]** actually wrote a couple weeks ago.

**[04:08]** Finally got to post it yesterday,

**[04:10]** just in terms of timing with everything else.

**[04:12]** And it was one that was very important to me

**[04:16]** on a personal and professional level.

**[04:19]** But like when I'm writing them,

**[04:21]** the question is, the more it means to me,

**[04:23]** the harder it can be to write it,

**[04:25]** because it can be a little bit more convoluted, essentially.

**[04:28]** And it seemed to hit home maybe a little bit more than some of the other ones.

**[04:32]** Like upon sharing it, I got notifications of like probably 20 people shared it to their

**[04:38]** story very quickly, which is rare.

**[04:40]** So just shout out to people reading that and absorbing it.

**[04:44]** It's just the kind of lesson that's important to me again, personally, professionally.

**[04:49]** So really cool to see people resonate with that.

**[04:52]** Yeah, that is pretty exciting.

**[04:53]** I've barely been on social media, so I haven't yet to read it, but I gotta get on there.

**[04:58]** but it makes me excited to get on there

**[04:59]** because it's like there's something I can go look at.

**[05:03]** I'm gonna give a shout out to everybody

**[05:04]** that has been doing the habit stacking

**[05:07]** that we're doing in Telegram.

**[05:09]** There's a good crew in there

**[05:11]** and they were very active on week one.

**[05:13]** So week one habit was making sure

**[05:16]** we're getting in our warmups properly.

**[05:18]** So kind of an easy win for I think a majority

**[05:20]** of our athletes, they're very good at making sure

**[05:23]** they get their sweat check in.

**[05:24]** So week two, we're doing what we call finish the curve, right?

**[05:28]** From that endurance community, you like to talk about a lot.

**[05:31]** So making sure people are cooling down properly.

**[05:34]** And already on day one, I could see people

**[05:36]** are plugging in their stuff.

**[05:37]** So Kyle Moline, Pete Nas, McKenna, Chris Livingston,

**[05:41]** Stephanie Klisham, Grace Rockwell, you guys

**[05:45]** are all being active in there.

**[05:46]** And I appreciate that because we put the time into making that.

**[05:50]** And we'll try to keep you guys cruising

**[05:52]** through the next couple of weeks.

**[05:54]** I think weeks three and four are where people are going to want to dip away from it, but

**[05:59]** again, we'll try to keep the conversation going around it.

**[06:03]** So if you guys can hang through these weeks, I think you'll see some positive changes in

**[06:08]** your performances over the earth.

**[06:10]** My schedule today is a little screwy and I felt guilty because of this because I did

**[06:15]** an eight minute cool down, but I was like, okay, but I got to go get my shake.

**[06:20]** I'm going to see if I can keep my heart rate up over 100 while jogging the 10 feet to my

**[06:27]** house and putting the stuff in a cup and then running back into my office.

**[06:32]** I think I was pretty close.

**[06:33]** I'm going to go back and look at the stats, but I think I was pretty close.

**[06:36]** Yeah.

**[06:37]** All right.

**[06:38]** There's a couple people in there too.

**[06:39]** Their names are in there, but there's a couple empty cells.

**[06:43]** Maybe we can get you guys up in there.

**[06:45]** Yeah.

**[06:46]** Yeah.

**[06:47]** Get in there.

**[06:48]** Go on Telegram.

**[06:49]** fill in your warm up and your cool down.

**[06:51]** All right, read, listen, watch.

**[06:53]** I have for read, now this is a situation

**[06:58]** where the spelling and the pronunciation are not similar.

**[07:01]** So if you are trying to buy this or download it,

**[07:05]** it is phonetically tau teh ching,

**[07:08]** T-A-O-T-E-C-H-I-N-G, but it's pronounced tau de jing.

**[07:12]** And the Misfit Mind Post is loosely based on this

**[07:17]** because Lao Tzu is attributed to that quote,

**[07:22]** which he definitely did not say.

**[07:24]** He didn't really have like lengthy things like that.

**[07:28]** His quotes were usually two or three words.

**[07:30]** But I heard that quote and then went in to do some research,

**[07:36]** found that it was misattributed to him,

**[07:38]** but also like there are periods of time

**[07:40]** where maybe a shorter book like The Five Rings

**[07:44]** or Dao De Jing or anything like that

**[07:47]** that has like kind of lessons throughout it,

**[07:49]** I will keep in my backpack

**[07:50]** and just reference those things on a regular basis.

**[07:53]** And that was one that stayed in my backpack

**[07:55]** for like three to six months and is really powerful

**[07:58]** and is very much about the idea

**[08:00]** that the like small unseen subtle quiet things in our lives

**[08:05]** that are done on a regular basis

**[08:07]** are what shape what actually happens in our life.

**[08:09]** And I think a lot of times we get that backwards,

**[08:12]** get a little bit out of alignment with,

**[08:14]** you know, the thoughts we have

**[08:16]** and then how they're sort of put out into the world.

**[08:18]** So short read, very powerful.

**[08:21]** There's different translations.

**[08:23]** I don't know how it would be listening to it.

**[08:25]** I think if I listened to it

**[08:27]** just because of my attention span,

**[08:29]** I would have to listen to it more than once,

**[08:31]** but it is short.

**[08:31]** It'd be the kind of thing that I would like probably loop

**[08:33]** to get the things down.

**[08:35]** But again, very digestible, very short read thing,

**[08:38]** a thing where you can sort of take one of the lessons

**[08:41]** and kind of move forward with it.

**[08:42]** The next one, I am like, I'm always on the fence

**[08:46]** about sharing this stuff.

**[08:48]** And it's funny because I am a fan of Chris Williamson,

**[08:52]** who does Modern Wisdom.

**[08:53]** And I'm a fan of Andrew Huberman,

**[08:56]** which I think everybody knows.

**[08:58]** But I think a lot of the content is too long form

**[09:01]** and too convoluted.

**[09:02]** I don't love the idea of the general population

**[09:06]** listening to the complexity of Huberman

**[09:08]** and then being like, all right, my morning routine

**[09:10]** needs to be six and a half hours long.

**[09:12]** But it's good when there are pieces in there

**[09:15]** that we can really use.

**[09:16]** So towards the front of the episode,

**[09:19]** there is a conversation about cortisol, melatonin, sleep,

**[09:23]** that I think it does a really fantastic job

**[09:25]** of explaining what you should try to accomplish

**[09:28]** in the first half, or the first hour of your day,

**[09:31]** to then sleep really well and sort of set yourself up

**[09:35]** to have a good circadian rhythm and whatnot.

**[09:36]** So I would say, in my opinion,

**[09:39]** half of that podcast is worth listening to.

**[09:41]** So if you're like a workout and podcast background noise kind of person, go for it.

**[09:46]** Um, if not.

**[09:48]** Clips is probably the better way to go and doing the clip on cortisol,

**[09:51]** melatonin and sleep, um, is good.
