---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383"
published: 2026-01-14
episode_number: "383"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:54"
chunk_end: "19:54"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383 - Chunk 2

Episode: [Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:54]** Last but not least, I love British crime dramas, which means I have a Brit box,

**[10:01]** uh, subscription on prime.

**[10:02]** It's like a little add-on and.

**[10:05]** That's so funny.

**[10:06]** You stop it, Paige.

**[10:08]** I'm over here watching like Matt Lock.

**[10:10]** Oh yeah.

**[10:10]** And season three of Blue Lights is out.

**[10:14]** I would say it's definitely my top ten, which is a crazy thing to say about

**[10:19]** British crime dramas that I have ten.

**[10:20]** I do have ten.

**[10:22]** But of active ones, probably down in the top five.

**[10:25]** So anyone who gets into that world that needs to know the rest of them,

**[10:29]** you DM me and I will tell you which shows to watch.

**[10:31]** But Blue Lights is pretty good, but you do need the Brit box edition to prime.

**[10:35]** So you need your 75th add on that you forget to get rid of.

**[10:39]** I got like acorn TV and Brit box and it's a mess,

**[10:43]** but blue lights, go watch it.

**[10:45]** Let's see, I'm gonna start with watch

**[10:47]** because it's just a quick one right off the top of my head.

**[10:50]** Two friends of mine and myself,

**[10:52]** we went and saw Housemaid in theaters.

**[10:55]** It's with Sydney Sweeney and shoot,

**[10:58]** I forget her name every time,

**[11:00]** but she's Karen from Mean Girls, you know, blonde.

**[11:04]** Amanda Seyfried.

**[11:06]** How do you know that?

**[11:07]** We talked about this last week.

**[11:08]** How do you know these things?

**[11:10]** You don't want, yeah.

**[11:12]** Anyway, it is so good.

**[11:14]** It's very suspense, very thriller.

**[11:17]** And I don't know, I thought it was over at one point,

**[11:20]** and then all of a sudden the movie like actually started

**[11:23]** and it was very good, like edge of your seat kind of movie.

**[11:26]** I just feel like I've been to a movie in a while,

**[11:28]** haven't been to a movie in a while that's been like,

**[11:30]** whoa, besides Wicked, but that's different.

**[11:33]** This was very good movie.

**[11:34]** So Housemaid is my watch.

**[11:36]** my read, the new guidelines came out,

**[11:39]** like the new dietary guidelines, like FDA.

**[11:42]** So I've been like looking into that.

**[11:44]** Pretty interesting to see all of the changes

**[11:46]** that they're making there.

**[11:47]** I'm sure some people have some opinions on it,

**[11:49]** but you know, the push towards like real whole foods,

**[11:53]** the emphasis on protein, being aware of processed foods,

**[11:56]** like it's kind of a cool change to see.

**[11:58]** Doesn't really feel like revolutionary,

**[12:01]** but it's I think honest, which is pretty neat.

**[12:04]** I'm sure there's some things to criticize about it.

**[12:06]** I just haven't looked enough in detail.

**[12:08]** So I'm still kinda, you know, here and there when I can

**[12:11]** popping in and checking that stuff out.

**[12:14]** Have you read it?

**[12:15]** The politicized angle of it bores the shit out of me.

**[12:17]** Yeah, sure.

**[12:18]** Like I'll fall asleep talking about that.

**[12:20]** I'm just over that, like part of our country.

**[12:23]** So it's like, do we need to bring that

**[12:26]** into this conversation?

**[12:27]** But yes, obviously the changes being more in line

**[12:31]** with like the general populations burning,

**[12:33]** their metabolic rate is so low that like, do you need a lot of fat and carbs? And the

**[12:39]** answer is no, not really.

**[12:41]** Yeah.

**[12:42]** Yeah.

**[12:43]** Just the big picture, I think shift on like food quality is pretty cool to see.

**[12:47]** Yeah, I agree.

**[12:48]** Especially in our country compared to, you know, what you might see in like Europe. And

**[12:52]** then my, let me find it. Where do I have it? I started listening to a podcast. It's called

**[12:58]** how I built this by Guy Raz.

**[13:01]** So it's essentially like people who like startup companies from scratch or from nothing.

**[13:07]** So I just started listening to that.

**[13:08]** I'll probably listen to it more on Thursday when I get into my zone too.

**[13:12]** But I'm on an episode about, kind of like my intro episode right now is listening to

**[13:18]** the guy who established Five Guys.

**[13:21]** I just kind of, yeah, I just kind of picked one.

**[13:23]** So kind of neat.

**[13:24]** I figured it's just a little bit of a different perspective of maybe building a business or

**[13:31]** different approaches that people take when they're starting from scratch. I'm excited to see the

**[13:36]** ways that it relates to performance in the gym and things like that. So I'll have more on that soon.

**[13:43]** Cool.

**[13:44]** All right. I'm going to open the Q&A with one that just made me laugh. I got a DM

**[13:51]** from Paige's remote client that said,

**[13:54]** brother dot dot dot.

**[13:56]** I think one day on the podcast,

**[13:57]** you could explain the difference

**[13:59]** between pacing and gamifying.

**[14:00]** And like, this one's fun because there's like,

**[14:04]** Paige and I have talked about this.

**[14:05]** So Paige is now, you know,

**[14:07]** weekly on the podcast with me.

**[14:09]** And you know, you have to kind of learn my vernacular

**[14:13]** and I might go off on a tangent.

**[14:15]** And there's just like,

**[14:16]** it probably took me at least two years

**[14:19]** to be able to free flow on a podcast.

**[14:22]** It's just a different setting.

**[14:23]** And then eventually you forget.

**[14:25]** The goal for me is to forget what you're doing

**[14:27]** and just have a conversation, that kind of thing.

**[14:31]** But there's the like, who's been listening forever.

**[14:34]** So who has the Misfit dictionary?

**[14:36]** And we always have people coming in and out

**[14:39]** of subscriptions and listening

**[14:41]** and new listeners and all of that.

**[14:43]** So Paige will try to keep me in line with that

**[14:46]** because I think she represents

**[14:48]** you know, the like, like Hunter and I having a shorthand for almost a decade.

**[14:53]** You know what I mean? That kind of thing.

**[14:55]** But then you guys can send me messages like this and that will also be helpful because to me,

**[15:00]** whatever terminology, especially we're in this industry where it's like,

**[15:04]** we have to make up terminology for things that hasn't necessarily existed before.

**[15:08]** So to answer the actual question, game-ifying a workout is strategizing to get the absolute best score

**[15:17]** regardless of like, I'm going really hard at this point,

**[15:21]** I'm going slow at this point,

**[15:23]** I'm, you know, doing singles and everybody else is doing,

**[15:27]** you know, unbroken, you know, transitions

**[15:30]** and like, how quickly can I get my feet into the rower?

**[15:33]** Like, there was one year that you and McKenna

**[15:35]** were doing a workout together, filmed.

**[15:38]** And you caught her every round

**[15:41]** because of how you started rowing.

**[15:43]** She was beating you by almost 10 seconds around

**[15:45]** around and you caught her every single round because of how quickly you got into the row

**[15:50]** and started rowing.

**[15:51]** So gamifying is I'm not trying to get fitter right now, like really strategizing to get

**[15:58]** the absolute best score in a competition setting or in a testing setting.

**[16:02]** Pacing would be more like to get what I really should out of this workout.

**[16:08]** Again, and this is training, testing, competing across the board, like what sort of drop off

**[16:13]** am I looking at across a workout?

**[16:15]** Is it possible to like have even rounds?

**[16:17]** Is it possible to start conservative and then be able to push at the end and maybe even

**[16:22]** make up some time so you negative split a workout on the shorter end, more power output

**[16:27]** style like how much drop off is okay.

**[16:30]** And these are going to change workout to workout, but pacing is very much like what are my round

**[16:35]** splits?

**[16:36]** How does the workout go?

**[16:37]** How do you know what happens to my heart rate throughout the whole thing?

**[16:40]** That sort of deal.

**[16:41]** Hopefully that cleans some of that up.

**[16:44]** And again, if I'm ever speaking in that way and you guys want a clarification, just let

**[16:49]** me know and we'll jump right back in.

**[16:51]** Okay.

**[16:52]** Actual question number one.

**[16:53]** Okay.

**[16:54]** Zone two.

**[16:55]** Say we have 30 minutes or less left before we have to leave.

**[16:58]** Better to just hit a shorter zone two, assuming that's all that's left for the day, or is

**[17:03]** it not worthwhile?

**[17:04]** I assume it's similar to something is better than nothing, but I don't recall where I heard

**[17:09]** also have heard something about the lines of shorter zone 220 minutes or less as an

**[17:13]** example I heard elsewhere, held no benefits. Thoughts?

**[17:17]** I'm going to start at the back. The no benefits thing is insane. Non-exercise movement, going

**[17:24]** for a walk, moving your body, cooling down. Fantastic. So the no benefits thing is kind

**[17:29]** of silly. If you are trying to make a significant change to your aerobic conditioning, yes,

**[17:38]** need to be in there one, two, three, four hours a week doing that.

**[17:43]** One thing that's interesting though is we can make changes on a machine through exposure

**[17:49]** that aren't necessarily going to make massive differences in our aerobic output.

**[17:53]** So is that still worth like you shouldn't do it?

**[17:56]** It's not worth anything.

**[17:57]** And the answer to that of course is no.

**[17:59]** So what I would say here is this sounds to me like we can create a gray area between

**[18:05]** zone two and cool down.

**[18:06]** I don't want someone leaving the gym like off the bike at,

**[18:11]** you know, 140, 150, 160 beats per minute

**[18:15]** and just out the door.

**[18:16]** I don't want that.

**[18:16]** But if you had 30 minutes left and you started at zone two

**[18:21]** and you trickled down to zone one,

**[18:23]** you would get exposure to the machine,

**[18:25]** you would burn calories, you would have more movement,

**[18:27]** all of that stuff.

**[18:28]** So it's not like traditional let's log the hours

**[18:32]** sort of a thing.

**[18:33]** But if this is happening on a regular basis,

**[18:36]** it definitely has a benefit, right?

**[18:38]** I think the argument that we are hearing on a regular basis

**[18:42]** that is more kind of semantics and nuance than anything else

**[18:46]** is if you're dedicating a ton of your time to zone two

**[18:49]** and not to the other stuff,

**[18:51]** you're missing the point of what the sport is.

**[18:53]** And that's absolutely true.

**[18:54]** I'm working on another full episode for this.

**[18:58]** I think it's time to just redefine certain things

**[19:01]** and talk through the way that I'm writing it

**[19:03]** is based on the spectrum of who needs none of it

**[19:06]** and who needs a lot of it.

**[19:07]** And where do you sit as an athlete in between

**[19:10]** and we'll probably come up with like five

**[19:11]** or six different types of athlete.

**[19:13]** So I'm not sure that I answered the question specific

**[19:16]** to zone two, but maybe I answered what could be

**[19:19]** of benefit for somebody.

**[19:20]** Yeah, I think I have like, okay, is it 30 minutes

**[19:24]** or left in a full training session?

**[19:26]** Are we, is it just like I'm coaching today

**[19:28]** and I have a 30 minute window to do something?

**[19:32]** Like, can it be?

**[19:33]** It sounds like they're at the end of their training session and they've got 30 minutes

**[19:36]** left but that's it and they want to do zone two because it's one of the mandatory things

**[19:40]** for the week should they do it.

**[19:43]** Yeah.

**[19:44]** Sounds like maybe you pick a day to prioritize that if you're not getting any in.

**[19:49]** Sure.

**[19:50]** Yep.

**[19:51]** So.

**[19:52]** Yeah.

**[19:53]** All right.
