---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383"
published: 2026-01-14
episode_number: "383"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:54"
chunk_end: "29:51"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383 - Chunk 3

Episode: [Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[19:54]** Question number two.

**[19:55]** And also Paige, welcome to the Q&A conundrum of not having the full background on the question.

**[19:59]** That is always fun.

**[20:00]** True.

**[20:01]** True.

**[20:02]** directions. All right. How should I balance online qualifiers with training slash scheduled

**[20:09]** programming? Should I just sub out a conditioning piece with my online qualifier or do both perhaps

**[20:13]** on different days? I mean, I guess there's a couple different ways to approach that. Are you,

**[20:18]** what time of year is it? What qualifier is it? Are there multiple qualifier workouts in a weekend or

**[20:25]** are we just prioritizing one? So I'll go kind of like prioritizing one every weekend if that were

**[20:31]** or the way it would go.

**[20:34]** I very much think you'll get some ideas

**[20:36]** of how to approach that right now

**[20:38]** if you're following our programming,

**[20:40]** because we're gonna do OpenSim on Fridays

**[20:43]** and you can kind of figure out around those right now

**[20:47]** what would work best for you.

**[20:49]** So again, assuming this is someone

**[20:50]** that's following our training,

**[20:51]** for example, this upcoming Friday,

**[20:54]** we have MFA 26.1 and we also have an additional rowing piece

**[20:59]** for conditioning on that day.

**[21:01]** So I would think you'd want to, number one,

**[21:04]** prioritize that, warm up properly, cool down properly,

**[21:07]** and then kind of see how you feel for a second session.

**[21:10]** But I feel like time of year is important too.

**[21:13]** So, you know, if you are kind of in the midst

**[21:16]** of training volumes fairly high,

**[21:18]** I would very much say two sessions in a day

**[21:21]** would be acceptable.

**[21:23]** As long as you're prioritizing,

**[21:24]** like if this online qualifier is important to you,

**[21:27]** then like that workout needs to be prioritized

**[21:29]** so that you get the highest placement

**[21:31]** on the leaderboard for it.

**[21:32]** And then you can kind of balance the training around that.

**[21:34]** If there's no lifting involved,

**[21:36]** or you can still hit a lift that day,

**[21:39]** you can get an additional bitch work piece in.

**[21:41]** So yeah, I think obviously a little more context here

**[21:45]** is good, but I feel like again,

**[21:48]** if you can follow phase three right now,

**[21:51]** you're gonna get some ideas of how to approach

**[21:54]** an upcoming online qualifier.

**[21:56]** You can say that's pretty fair.

**[21:56]** Yeah, so I would, yeah, I think so.

**[21:58]** the proximity to the season thing is incredibly important. So if these are in the fall or the

**[22:03]** spring after quarterfinals, like give yourself a primer day and like really do it the way that it

**[22:11]** should be done. The other things to consider are how like how much do you want to qualify and how

**[22:18]** hard is it to qualify? So if I've got an athlete who like part of their season plan is to go compete

**[22:24]** at this thing and they need to qualify, then I am going to put it as the first piece coming off of

**[22:29]** arrest day, probably arrest day that has zone two. So they kind of feel like they got their body

**[22:34]** moving, they don't feel stiff. And then the way that I would structure programming would be,

**[22:39]** do we have this like incredible, really good, long warmup? Do we have a good cool down afterwards?

**[22:45]** And then we have maybe like a little buffet of like, okay, that was quick and dirty and I feel

**[22:50]** great, let's go do a lift, do a skill doing conditioning, whatever. Or like that whooped

**[22:55]** my ass, what do you think I should do? And it's like maybe we can hit an upper body lift

**[23:01]** that doesn't do much to the CNS, do a reps or a skill session, and then flush and kind

**[23:05]** of be done with it. So the other instance would be, I just want to do this to see where

**[23:10]** I'm going to land or I'm going to this competition, I work with enough athletes, I'm going to

**[23:15]** this competition to like beat the shit out of everybody and take the prize. And like

**[23:20]** the qualifiers are a bit of a throwaway. So it's like, all right, like, we're still lifting

**[23:25]** first, then you're gonna do this, then you're gonna do your skill, that kind of thing. So

**[23:28]** I definitely think those proximity to season, how much you care about qualifying and then

**[23:33]** how hard it is to qualify are definitely things to think about. And the cool thing about the

**[23:38]** way we do these Q&A is, is we can give advice to more people than just one specific question.

**[23:44]** And then when you have the actual qualifier and you want our help, telegram.

**[23:48]** Like we're there, we're going to help you, your peers are going to help you, that sort

**[23:51]** of thing.

**[23:52]** All right.

**[23:53]** Do you see value in competition exposure and as a young rising athlete who may not be a

**[23:58]** top performer?

**[23:59]** I love competing through online qualifiers and local comps because I like the practice

**[24:03]** of strategizing and executing, but there's a part of me that often wants to wait until

**[24:07]** I'm better at this or that, which is a losing approach because the goalpost is constantly

**[24:14]** moving. If you follow our programming and you're not competing one to three times a

**[24:19]** year, I don't know what the fuck's going on. It can't, you can't be, what kind of hobby

**[24:24]** is this? It's too hard, right? And I think you're, yeah, I think, and I think you're

**[24:29]** like, I think you can get into that gray area of training where it's like, I'm going pretty

**[24:34]** I don't really know why I'm doing this, you know what I mean?

**[24:37]** Like some people are just athletes through and through

**[24:40]** and they get into that mode.

**[24:41]** So you gotta compete.

**[24:43]** Like I don't, you got, it's the only true litmus test

**[24:47]** because we have people who have no clue how good they are

**[24:51]** until they compete.

**[24:52]** And we have people who have no clue how bad they are

**[24:55]** competing until they compete, right?

**[24:57]** Yeah.

**[24:58]** I mean, they'll smash you on a Tuesday in their gym, right?

**[25:01]** their bar, their temperature, their music, their whatever.

**[25:05]** And then there's a bunch of people in the stands

**[25:08]** and they don't do well.

**[25:09]** So you gotta go compete because it's the only thing

**[25:12]** that's gonna truly tell you where you're at.

**[25:14]** Yeah, I think, I mean,

**[25:15]** there's definitely a balance to it as well.

**[25:18]** Competing in online qualifiers,

**[25:20]** the goal is to likely get to an in-person competition.

**[25:23]** So again, you're competing and learning and strategizing

**[25:27]** through those qualifiers, but also you have,

**[25:30]** If you qualify, you have two months

**[25:33]** until that competition pops up.

**[25:34]** And if you want to take it seriously,

**[25:36]** run through a peaking schedule and that will show you,

**[25:39]** you know, you just kind of get more experience

**[25:41]** by doing something like that,

**[25:43]** where you learn how to gradually increase training volume

**[25:47]** and intensity over time and how to deload for a competition.

**[25:51]** Again, that's something that we are, you know,

**[25:53]** this is what we live and breathe and do.

**[25:55]** So, you know, if that is where you're at, reach out to us.

**[25:59]** and it's something we can help you with as well.

**[26:01]** I think the one thing I want to add here

**[26:03]** is the permission and the full-on request

**[26:07]** to be vulnerable as an athlete.

**[26:10]** I'm going to do this, and I really care about it,

**[26:12]** and I really want to prep for it.

**[26:14]** So many people give themselves the excuse of, well, I don't

**[26:18]** really care about this.

**[26:20]** So there's just that one little piece,

**[26:22]** just in case they don't do well.

**[26:24]** And I'm telling you, you're not going to do as well.

**[26:26]** I've got your back.

**[26:27]** Paige has your back.

**[26:28]** everyone in Telegram is gonna have your back

**[26:31]** and everyone else can fuck off basically.

**[26:33]** So like really just, if you're gonna do something like that,

**[26:37]** let yourself make a big deal out of it.

**[26:39]** Yeah.

**[26:40]** Online qualifier, local comp, the whole thing.

**[26:43]** If people at the local comp think you're a hardo,

**[26:45]** maybe you are a hardo and congratulations, right?

**[26:47]** Like, so I think that piece of it is incredibly important

**[26:51]** because I've worked with people

**[26:52]** who were on the opposite side of this

**[26:54]** and like I've lost top level athletes

**[26:57]** because they know how I feel about a qualifier

**[26:59]** every fucking Wednesday and way too many competitions

**[27:03]** and that whole thing.

**[27:03]** And it's like, are we gonna get work done?

**[27:05]** Like that whole deal.

**[27:06]** So there's definitely a spectrum to this,

**[27:09]** but I think within the context of this question,

**[27:11]** the answer is compete and make it feel like a big deal

**[27:14]** regardless of what level you're at.

**[27:16]** Yeah, and especially, I mean, as a young athlete,

**[27:19]** those competitions are stepping stones for you.

**[27:23]** I started at local competitions.

**[27:25]** That got me to regionals.

**[27:26]** that got me to competing on a team.

**[27:29]** I could say the same about McKenna,

**[27:31]** like any close athlete that I'm working with right now

**[27:34]** or talking to, it's like we all had stepping stones.

**[27:37]** So again, like you said, take it seriously.

**[27:39]** All right, how do you coach athletes

**[27:41]** who are highly self-aware and disciplined,

**[27:44]** but also prone to over analysis or execution?

**[27:47]** Where do you want them to trust the process

**[27:50]** versus self-regulate?

**[27:52]** I think a lot of it can also be,

**[27:54]** I think the proof is in the data, right?

**[27:56]** So if you are constantly showing progress in your training,

**[28:01]** again, that trusting the process is right in front of you,

**[28:05]** I feel like the self, what do you mean self-regulating?

**[28:08]** How would you explain that

**[28:10]** if you were to read this question to somebody?

**[28:12]** Where do you want them to trust the process

**[28:14]** versus self-regulate?

**[28:16]** So I think it's more like trusting the process

**[28:18]** is very much, I'm gonna go in,

**[28:20]** I'm gonna read the thing that I'm supposed to do,

**[28:21]** and then I'm gonna go do it,

**[28:23]** Whereas the self-regulation, you might be relying on yourself a little bit more to decide

**[28:27]** what things you need to do, what you might need to change, that kind of thing.

**[28:31]** Yeah.

**[28:32]** Cool.

**[28:33]** Man.

**[28:34]** It's a deep one.

**[28:36]** Yeah, it is.

**[28:37]** I have so much experience too with this.

**[28:41]** Yep.

**[28:42]** I don't know.

**[28:43]** I feel like there was a lot of decision making.

**[28:46]** The decision making didn't come until I saw proof in trusting the process first, if that

**[28:53]** makes sense.

**[28:56]** I relied heavily on Gabe, especially when I was first starting of like, what should

**[29:01]** I do?

**[29:02]** How do I modify this?

**[29:03]** Listen, my back hurts.

**[29:04]** How do I change this up?

**[29:06]** And I very much put my trust in him and again, in the training process and in the methodology

**[29:11]** and in the hitting stimulus, all that kind of stuff.

**[29:14]** And as I got older and as I started paying more attention to how my body is feeling and

**[29:20]** patterns and things like that, that's I think kind of when that self-regulating would come

**[29:24]** in of like, Drew, I do this movement on Tuesday and then X movement on Wednesday and I really

**[29:30]** feel my back flare up from that combination.

**[29:34]** So like, yeah, there are times when that would happen and like I think feedback is more important

**[29:40]** as far as like, you know, what kind of feedback are you giving your coach if you're working

**[29:44]** with somebody.

**[29:45]** Yeah, or is someone self-aware if they are over-analyzing?

**[29:50]** You know what I mean?
