---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383"
published: 2026-01-14
episode_number: "383"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:42"
chunk_end: "59:42"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383 - Chunk 6

Episode: [[../episode|Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383]]

## Transcript

**[49:42]** For me personally, I hit my peak like 2024 and I was still finding my ceiling.

**[49:51]** And again, I was 32.

**[49:54]** Then you have an athlete like McKenna who's 27 who is rising through her fitness.

**[50:00]** And then there's someone like Annika Greer who's maybe 22 and also had a phenomenal year this year.

**[50:09]** I don't know if I can really speak to age.

**[50:12]** I mean, Brooke Wells is going to be maybe 32, 33 retiring this year. Had an incredible

**[50:19]** season, had an incredible career. I don't know. I don't know if I have much of an opinion on age,

**[50:25]** really. There's too many variables to bring into this question. Typically, women are going to

**[50:31]** perform better for longer, but that's not always the case. We just have significantly more instances

**[50:38]** of women doing the like, well, I might qualify indie, I might qualify masters, like that sort of deal.

**[50:45]** Mm-hmm.

**[50:46]** But there's a level of, like I've talked about it before, on the remote coaching side,

**[50:50]** working with women can be, you know, easier because of the humility. So like the ego piece of

**[50:57]** a male potentially stopping sooner because they're not sure whether they can do it.

**[51:02]** What is incredibly important about this is like not getting wrapped up in the number.

**[51:07]** if you're doing what you should be doing. I think that to me is the angle that I would take

**[51:13]** in talking through this with somebody. Because this person's probably wondering like what's

**[51:19]** going to happen to me. And it's like, are you going to continue to iterate? Are you going to

**[51:24]** continue to figure out like the only people that I give two lifts and two conditioning pieces to

**[51:31]** year round are men between the age of like 19 and 21, somewhere in that range. And part of it is me

**[51:37]** asking them to tap out because they're begging for more volume.

**[51:42]** It's like the only way that I can show them that they don't need

**[51:45]** more volume is by being like, yes.

**[51:49]** Then finally, they competed the games and then it's October and they're like,

**[51:53]** dude, leave me alone.

**[51:54]** It's like finally, that kind of thing.

**[51:57]** So continuing to iterate and knowing that once you have a really great base,

**[52:03]** there are periods of time during the year where

**[52:06]** anything more than lift Metcon and skill is probably a little bit too much later in your

**[52:10]** career. So if you're doing the right things, you should ignore the shit out of that question.

**[52:17]** Use that question to give yourself context for what you should be doing to continue to

**[52:21]** improve. But I've had this argument with 20 different coaches. I've never, ever, ever

**[52:28]** seen someone reach their genetic potential. Not once. I've never worked with someone where

**[52:32]** I've been like, that's it, they're tapped out.

**[52:33]** Like, we can't improve this thing.

**[52:35]** It's never happened, so I'm waiting for that shit to happen.

**[52:39]** And like, if somebody trails off because their priorities change,

**[52:43]** that to me is not the same question, the same set of questions that we would be asking.

**[52:47]** Yeah. I mean, you can just take a look at the leaderboard at the Games.

**[52:52]** Age is kind of all over in World Fitness Project.

**[52:56]** Like, a lot of the same athletes in there, but yeah, that's...

**[52:59]** And working with a master's athletes right now who are still like,

**[53:04]** wow, my ceiling is so much higher than I thought it was, right?

**[53:07]** So they're still searching for some of that at,

**[53:11]** maybe it's kind of a newfound excitement for what they can accomplish.

**[53:18]** And they're just realizing that too.

**[53:20]** All right. What's your advice on getting into functional shape,

**[53:23]** lifting and walking now for four months?

**[53:26]** First and foremost, that's like the best place to start.

**[53:29]** That's amazing.

**[53:32]** People start at the end and wonder why they quit, right?

**[53:36]** You just pile all of this shit on and it doesn't work.

**[53:40]** So having that momentum is incredibly important.

**[53:44]** And I think there are a bunch of different avenues

**[53:46]** that you could go in from here.

**[53:49]** Whenever I'm helping a friend, like a muggle,

**[53:56]** That just doesn't know our world and they want to get into, they're like, should I do cardio?

**[54:02]** And it's like, what? What are you talking about? You don't elevate your heart rate. You're gonna

**[54:06]** die when you're 66. Stop it. I recommend at least 48 hours of recovery between. I don't like driving

**[54:16]** somebody into the ground right at the beginning of this. And I know that this can be like a little

**[54:20]** antithetical. One answer, one beautiful answer, one answer that I believe in wholeheartedly.

**[54:25]** is go sign up for onramp, go find an affiliate and sign up and get to it. I mean, if you need

**[54:31]** suggestions, we have a network of people literally across the entire world that can help you find

**[54:36]** the best affiliate in your area. But getting your heart rate elevated as part of this,

**[54:42]** once a week and then twice a week and then three times a week and giving yourself that

**[54:46]** every other day situation where you're sticking to what you've been doing. But then just to start

**[54:54]** on Monday and then Monday and Friday, and you just get into this rhythm of getting your heart rate up.

**[54:59]** I think that would be my next step in this evolution is to get someone breathing heavy

**[55:05]** one to three times a week. We have a GPP program for this specific instance here,

**[55:11]** but if you're kind of new to this world, I think you gotta be signed up for GPP and in Telegram

**[55:17]** and, you know, in the DMs and emails and stuff with Paige and I and just understanding this world.

**[55:23]** But hat tip for that's the way to start.

**[55:26]** If anybody's listening to this that isn't doing that kind of thing, that is the way to start.

**[55:29]** Like move your body, get yourself a little bit stronger, prove to yourself that movement is

**[55:34]** medicine and you feel better when you do it and that whole deal. And then once you feel like

**[55:38]** that's just part of your life, then it's time to start huffing and puffing.

**[55:42]** Yeah, that I do love that question. And I love that they, I mean, very general way of saying it,

**[55:49]** I'm lifting and walking now for four months, but I'm going to assume that's pretty consistent.

**[55:54]** So you're building a really good habit by doing that and by slowly adding in that one day a week

**[56:00]** or to two days a week, to whatever. Again, we just talked about habit stacking over the last couple

**[56:06]** weeks in the podcast and it's like, that is exactly how you do that. And you take away a

**[56:10]** lot of the intimidation factor by doing that, the fear factor by doing that. So this one hits home

**[56:16]** because like here at Great White, we are getting some new members in. And again, people who have

**[56:22]** never done this before and they're very new. And there's a lot of success with having on-ramps.

**[56:27]** So finding a gym that does do on-ramping and if this is kind of, I think if you're listening

**[56:32]** to our podcast, there's gotta be some like lean towards I wanna do this, like I wanna do CrossFit,

**[56:39]** maybe I'm nervous. So this is definitely us like giving you that okay, like to go walk in that door.

**[56:45]** Yeah, for sure. All right. We will do one or two of the extras if we have time kind of situation here and then call it one question that was actually asked today is if somebody has any tips to move forward in handstand walks and then it said lol afterwards.

**[57:02]** I personally love the wall walk into handstand walking. Huge fan of this. And not just for

**[57:09]** someone who's learning how to handstand walk, but for someone who's learning how to break at the

**[57:13]** knee so that they can get out of that like scorpion banana back position. But the first iteration

**[57:19]** is wall walk, like really beautiful pointed toes, like a really like gymnast style handstand,

**[57:27]** and just lean off the wall. And I think the expectation to go from not doing it to doing

**[57:33]** a lot of it is a problem that a lot of people have. The people that I've seen in a gym be okay

**[57:40]** with the mat width, the four feet or six feet, and kicking down and kicking back up. So they

**[57:46]** have repetition in the part of it that is challenging for them, I think is really helpful.

**[57:51]** I also do know that this person is actually pretty skilled with wall walks.

**[57:55]** So we know that there's some capacity there. So I think it's probably a little bit of like,

**[58:00]** I'm out in open space and it feels like I'm, you know, trying to learn how to swim in the deep end

**[58:06]** kind of a situation. There's no guardrails, there's no nothing. So for me, the wall walk

**[58:11]** into the handstand walk is great. And if you get the back pump and do the scorpion style,

**[58:16]** what we do is we get you up on the wall and we drop the foot so that your heel is down closer

**[58:22]** to your butt and then have you come off the wall.

**[58:25]** That one is much easier with a partner because your partner can like put their hand, you

**[58:31]** know, just right at the bottom of your upper leg, you know, where your knee is and kind

**[58:35]** of help you off the wall.

**[58:37]** Because you need to feel that position.

**[58:39]** It feels very foreign when you're upside down like that.

**[58:42]** This is something that we will be doing at camp to help people level up on their hand

**[58:46]** stand walks.

**[58:47]** That will be one of the sections that we're doing.

**[58:48]** But I just wanted to, I saw the question, wanted to put that out there and let people

**[58:53]** know that, like, to me, that is the easiest way to learn how to handstand walk, I think.

**[59:00]** Was there any context to that?

**[59:01]** Like I didn't get to go in Telegram prior to this.

**[59:05]** Were there any details of like, are they afraid to kick up?

**[59:08]** Are they afraid to do freestanding stuff?

**[59:10]** So to paraphrase, there was a little bit, it does sound like uncomfortable.

**[59:14]** There's some fear.

**[59:15]** Okay.

**[59:16]** Yep.

**[59:17]** Where your head is at, that position can also, like, if I'm trying to stare forward while

**[59:22]** I'm kicking up and you just can never let your feet take you.

**[59:25]** Yeah, right.

**[59:26]** Yep.

**[59:27]** I do like the idea of doing it with a friend, whether they're, like, you know, got a PVC

**[59:33]** that you have, like, some feedback to hit to.

**[59:36]** There is also a video that we have on YouTube from Misfit, I remember, with Chirb, like,
