---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383"
published: 2026-01-14
episode_number: "383"
chunk_index: 7
chunk_start: "59:42"
chunk_end: "01:03:33"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383 - Chunk 7

Episode: [Listener Q&A: Zone 2, Online Qualifiers,  Competing, Work Ethic,  Nutrition, and more... E.383](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[59:42]** kicking up out the wall, taking a step back, kicking up with his hands a little bit further

**[59:46]** just so that there's constant feedback that your feet have to fall to.

**[59:51]** Can't stay walking into the wall.

**[59:53]** Into the wall, yeah.

**[59:54]** So just kind of reversing what Drew is talking about, if there is that fear there,

**[59:58]** and then once that fear goes away or you build that confidence flipping around and starting to

**[01:00:04]** walk away, it's just a progression that perhaps can be added in there.

**[01:00:08]** For sure. I think I'm just going to end really quick with there was someone in telegram that

**[01:00:15]** did the, I believe it was the test with the bar muscle-ups from last phase. I

**[01:00:20]** don't remember what the exact workout was, but it was very much someone trying

**[01:00:24]** to improve their bar muscle-ups. They got a lot of really good feedback. I know you

**[01:00:29]** were in their page talking to him about his bar muscle-ups. A lot of people gave

**[01:00:33]** him some feedback and then he came back with a video of him in a workout and the

**[01:00:38]** explanation of the fact that he had done 45 minutes of practice and hadn't quite

**[01:00:43]** figured it out yet. I think his name is Nick. Nick, if you're listening, your bar muscle-ups

**[01:00:48]** were significantly better in the second video. That is very challenging to do. 45 minutes

**[01:00:54]** of practice is way too long. This is one of those work ethic things where it's like the

**[01:01:03]** dosage is off here. Right?

**[01:01:05]** Looking point.

**[01:01:06]** Oh, Gorilla Mind Way sounds good. Six scoops post-workout. It's like, you're going to shit

**[01:01:11]** your pants. Probably, we don't need it. You don't need your all your whole days worth of protein in

**[01:01:16]** one shake. Less time, more frequency. And there are really cool studies on what the mind is doing

**[01:01:26]** in between practice. You're trying to teach it what to do. And it needs to absorb the pattern

**[01:01:33]** that you're going for and the progression that you're doing. And it doesn't fully grasp all of

**[01:01:38]** those things and understand until you give it time, which sounds insane.

**[01:01:43]** Sounds like hocus pocus, scientifically proven, work on a skill, give it 48 to 72 hours, work

**[01:01:49]** on it again.

**[01:01:50]** And then part of it is just, I mean, if you're at an affiliate, there's at least one member

**[01:01:55]** that whips themselves for an hour with a jumper open open gym every week.

**[01:01:59]** And it's like, that ain't it.

**[01:02:00]** It can't be it.

**[01:02:02]** You're bleeding and you didn't do any double under.

**[01:02:04]** Please stop.

**[01:02:05]** You're scaring everybody.

**[01:02:06]** You work so hard.

**[01:02:07]** Hard.

**[01:02:08]** Right?

**[01:02:09]** So skill acquisition is a skill.

**[01:02:11]** Dial back the amount of time you're doing, increase the frequency, work on it like two

**[01:02:15]** or three times a week for say 15 minutes and you will get to where you want to go.

**[01:02:20]** You also can't just snap your fingers and get there.

**[01:02:23]** I love that work ethic.

**[01:02:24]** I love the fact that someone wants to go run their head through a wall, but skill acquisition

**[01:02:29]** isn't one of those things that you can apply that mindset to.

**[01:02:32]** I mean, very coachable too, to take all the feedback remotely that you did.

**[01:02:37]** Yes.

**[01:02:38]** That's impressive.

**[01:02:39]** I agree.

**[01:02:40]** I agree.

**[01:02:41]** All right. Anything else you want to talk about? You feel good about that? You got any final thoughts?

**[01:02:46]** No, it was pretty fun.

**[01:02:48]** Yeah.

**[01:02:48]** I like it.

**[01:02:49]** These ones are good. They're stimulating on our end.

**[01:02:52]** A lot of times I've written all of the notes and kind of already know.

**[01:02:56]** So having like thinking on the fly sort of is fun.

**[01:03:00]** Yeah, for sure.

**[01:03:01]** That was good. Good question. We did it. Thank you for tuning into another episode of the Misfit

**[01:03:07]** podcast and thank you to our show sponsor, Gorilla Mind. You can save money and support

**[01:03:12]** the podcast by going to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit or using the word misfit at checkout.

**[01:03:17]** Get your ass signed up for camp at CrossFit Roots, Boulder, Colorado, January 30th,

**[01:03:23]** February 1st. Get signed up for one of our programs. Go buy some gear, sharpentheaxco.com.

**[01:03:28]** All of that stuff is at the link in bio on the Misfit athletics Instagram. We'll see you guys next week
