---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395"
published: 2026-04-08
episode_number: "395"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395 - Chunk 1

Episode: [How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into a special edition Misfit Podcast. Offseason

**[00:23]** Block 1 is about to get started. A lot of people wanted to know what we're going to

**[00:28]** do, how we're going to get back into programming, how we're going to get ready for the 2027

**[00:33]** season, if your season ended with quarterfinals. And the answer is in this podcast, get started

**[00:39]** on Monday, April 13th, free trials everywhere. Just hit the link in bio on our Instagram

**[00:46]** for programming platform you prefer and get that full week in advance. I do want to give

**[00:52]** two kind of housekeeping pieces here. The first one is just that semi-finals athlete.

**[00:56]** going to keep saying it over and over.

**[00:59]** If you are prepping for in-person or online age group or individual semi-finals

**[01:04]** and you're not in one of the groups yet or haven't contacted me yet, please do so.

**[01:10]** Basically we have a separate group on Telegram for each one that we post the

**[01:14]** programming in, post results in, talk about how to execute, make certain changes,

**[01:20]** make volume changes, all that good stuff.

**[01:22]** So make sure you reach out a bunch of ways to do so.

**[01:24]** atmospheric coach, atmospheric athletics on Instagram.

**[01:28]** Talk to me in telegram, coachatmisfitathletics.com,

**[01:31]** the email, all kinds of different ways to get in touch,

**[01:33]** but make sure you do if you want to follow

**[01:36]** mine or in person.

**[01:38]** It's a mouthful getting all these out.

**[01:40]** I've shot so many different types of videos

**[01:44]** where I have to start over because I'm like,

**[01:46]** okay, there's this one and there's this one

**[01:48]** and there's this one and there's this one.

**[01:49]** I could break them out even more.

**[01:51]** We also made the announcement recently

**[01:54]** And I'll make it again, probably honestly for the last time, because we got so

**[01:57]** many applications, but we do have some remote coaching openings.

**[02:01]** I personally have some remote coaching openings, which is a kind of a rare occurrence.

**[02:05]** So if you are interested in getting started with that prior to phase one in

**[02:10]** the fall, I would get your application in as quickly as possible.

**[02:14]** I believe there is an option in our, in our link tree on Instagram to be

**[02:18]** able to go straight to the application.

**[02:20]** If not, just misfitathletics.com and you'll find your way to the application there.

**[02:25]** As always, this podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[02:29]** You can head to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit or use the

**[02:32]** code word misfit at checkout.

**[02:33]** I have my early stage review of Gorilla Dream.

**[02:37]** That is their sleep supplement.

**[02:39]** As I thought, I am very sensitive to it.

**[02:42]** So the serving size is four pills.

**[02:46]** And I started with one and then went up to two and then went up to three.

**[02:50]** Three was definitely too many.

**[02:52]** Good thing about that is I'm going to have more of a dose basically, or more doses within

**[02:57]** one bottle.

**[02:58]** In short term, the biggest difference has been my REM sleep.

**[03:01]** I've been getting a lot more REM sleep.

**[03:02]** Like when I wake up in the morning, I cycle through the Garmin metrics on my watch and

**[03:07]** it says plenty of REM, which is super important, especially for somebody like me that's staring

**[03:13]** at my damn computer screen all day for the most part.

**[03:16]** So that is, I believe like 20% off if you subscribe and save

**[03:21]** and then you would get an additional 10% off with that.

**[03:25]** So, and then I think it's like 39.99

**[03:27]** if you wanna try it for that first time.

**[03:29]** So, so far so good.

**[03:30]** I'm like a one or two pillar.

**[03:32]** I'm gonna do like a full export of a month in for you guys

**[03:37]** once I do to see what the difference in my metrics are.

**[03:40]** But guerillamind.com forward slash misfit to save

**[03:44]** and to support the show.

**[03:46]** Before we get into off season one,

**[03:48]** my shout out of the week is McKenna, the bodybuilder.

**[03:53]** I just, you know, she had surgery last year

**[03:59]** that ended her season.

**[04:00]** She had surgery this year that ended her season.

**[04:02]** And even the most strong willed person's gonna be like,

**[04:06]** so yeah, that kind of situation,

**[04:08]** even if you are super dedicated, strong willed,

**[04:11]** which she is, can, that can be like what gives?

**[04:14]** Like, am I gonna be able to make it back?

**[04:17]** And we've talked about this before,

**[04:18]** but just where there's a will, there is a way.

**[04:21]** If you wanna keep working, if you wanna keep grinding,

**[04:24]** that is the only secret that we have.

**[04:27]** And in true McKenna fashion,

**[04:30]** I gave her like a full day's work yesterday

**[04:33]** at the global gym.

**[04:34]** And I'm just honestly just worried,

**[04:37]** like, is she gonna be able to recover?

**[04:38]** Is she gonna feel okay in her sling doing this stuff?

**[04:41]** And of course the message back is just like,

**[04:43]** it felt so good to move.

**[04:44]** She was able to get into zone two on the stair stepper.

**[04:47]** She's down to try X, Y, and Z.

**[04:50]** So it's just that like people get so bogged down

**[04:55]** in the minutia and it's like,

**[04:58]** regardless of your personal circumstances,

**[05:00]** you get to decide how hard you wanna work

**[05:03]** and what your mindset can be.

**[05:04]** And I just think she's a great example of that.

**[05:06]** So definitely, definitely shout out to her.

**[05:08]** And I just hope I can like absorb some of it.

**[05:11]** That's something that I've been able to do over the years as a coach is like, if you're

**[05:16]** around people for long enough and you really admire something about them over time, it

**[05:21]** just kind of, you just kind of take it on.

**[05:23]** So that's, that's definitely my, my selfish hope with that.

**[05:26]** Yeah, that's, I love that.

**[05:28]** I went home, I surprised her at home last Wednesday.

**[05:31]** I went and it was her day after surgery, so I knew she'd be in pain, but we literally

**[05:36]** just kind of slugged on the couch for the day and just gave her company.

**[05:40]** She was in good spirits.

**[05:42]** More so, I think she struggled a little bit more

**[05:44]** like with quarterfinals because it's like,

**[05:47]** she wants to help Wyatt do well and, you know,

**[05:50]** see him excel, but also like, you know, there's that,

**[05:53]** you know, I'm not doing it and it sucks

**[05:56]** kind of situation for her.

**[05:57]** So, yeah, I think, I mean, that girl is building resilience

**[06:02]** like in real time every single day

**[06:04]** with what she's going through.

**[06:05]** So I, you know, kudos to her.

**[06:08]** It's fun to be part of the story like that too,

**[06:10]** like to get to watch it, but also like to be like part of the support and part of the

**[06:15]** advice, but also still being able to learn from her situation as well.

**[06:20]** Like, you know, I just think it's kind of cool.

**[06:22]** Um, sure.

**[06:23]** Yeah.

**[06:24]** I'm going to give a shout out to, um, my remote coach Katie.

**[06:30]** Um, so she is masters 59.

**[06:32]** This is her last year there.

**[06:34]** Um, but she's actually making a hard decision.

**[06:36]** We talked about it a lot today to kind of back off semi-finals prep.

**[06:42]** She'll age out of 59 next year, the 55 to 59.

**[06:49]** But she's keeping like the long game in mind with competing.

**[06:53]** She gets a lot of knee pain issues that seem to flare up pretty aggressively from time

**[07:01]** to time.

**[07:02]** Like there's a little bit of a, a solution, like finally kind of solving

**[07:07]** some of the root of the issue.

**[07:09]** Some of like her meniscus has been flared up.

**[07:12]** And I think a lot of it comes from like the stopping and starting with.

**[07:16]** Shuttle runs with double unders, you know, a lot of that kind of stuff.

**[07:19]** Sure.

**[07:20]** Yeah.

**[07:20]** So I think it's a bit of a relief, but a bit of a sadness to it as well when it

**[07:25]** comes to making a decision like this.

**[07:26]** But I feel like she's in a pretty good head space and I'm excited to kind of

**[07:31]** slowed things down to pick things back up with her.

**[07:34]** So she's just that kind of athlete

**[07:35]** who wants to show up again.

**[07:37]** Like there's a parallel between the two.

**[07:39]** I have two thoughts that came to mind.

**[07:40]** One is I like it when an athlete's a good sport,

**[07:44]** but like not too much of a good sport, right?

**[07:48]** Like this is a competitive thing

**[07:51]** and McKenna going to the gym

**[07:53]** and not being able to do the thing should bother her.

**[07:56]** You don't want it to like take over mentally.

**[07:58]** But then with Katie, it's like, it is a very hard decision.

**[08:02]** You have to, you hope to be able to guide the athlete

**[08:05]** to make the correct decision.

**[08:07]** But like, I usually have a little bit of a smirk

**[08:10]** that I try to hide when someone's fighting against that

**[08:13]** because you don't ever want to get in onto the hamster wheel

**[08:18]** of like, I'm not a competitive person.

**[08:22]** Like I need to back off and chill out.

**[08:23]** You don't want that to be the thing.

**[08:26]** And then for coaches out there on the master's side,

**[08:29]** this is extremely common where you have to find a way

**[08:34]** to get stimulus with athletes year round

**[08:38]** and then have those moments where let's say it is,

**[08:42]** high volume knee flexion or getting them upside down,

**[08:46]** it's bothering their neck or their traps

**[08:48]** or their shoulder, that kind of thing.

**[08:50]** You have to figure out when it's worth it

**[08:53]** to do those things, when you need to back off

**[08:55]** sort of how that push-pull works. And honestly, I like that as programming challenges.

**[09:04]** 23-year-olds, it's too easy to program for them. Fill up the sheet, let it rip.

**[09:10]** That is true. I have a very drastic contrast with her and Peyton, who is a young college kid.

**[09:17]** But as I get older and I've become more seasoned in this sport, I understand

**[09:24]** and the need for recovery and the just desire

**[09:30]** to not be in pain all the time.

**[09:32]** So like, you know, it's very much a reasonable ask

**[09:37]** and to know that like, there's still excitement

**[09:40]** looking forward to next year is like,

**[09:42]** all right, well, let's do this.

**[09:43]** Let's back off a little bit.

**[09:44]** Let's, you know, come to the root of the problem

**[09:47]** and get back after it.

**[09:48]** So, yeah.

**[09:49]** That is an amazing segue.

**[09:51]** So off season block one, I have a bunch of athletes

**[09:56]** contacting me that finished on the outskirts
