---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395"
published: 2026-04-08
episode_number: "395"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:59"
chunk_end: "19:54"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395 - Chunk 2

Episode: [How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:59]** of qualifying for the online semi-final.

**[10:02]** And maybe they're in 1900th and they can go

**[10:06]** or they're right on the line or they're just behind it.

**[10:08]** And if you wanna execute on that weekend

**[10:11]** to see where you're at, I think that's amazing.

**[10:14]** If you wanna follow a program that is not appropriate

**[10:17]** for you, that just doesn't line up for me.

**[10:20]** And it's tough because I think it hurts people's feelings.

**[10:25]** Like we might lose a prospective customer,

**[10:28]** but I'm just not gonna bury you and get you injured

**[10:31]** or make you hate going in and doing this.

**[10:34]** And I can tell you from experience as a coach

**[10:38]** and then you're gonna have great insight into this.

**[10:41]** Starting now for 2027 is a gift.

**[10:45]** The amount of time during the off season

**[10:48]** that you can prioritize what you have to work on

**[10:53]** is you have a step ahead of the people

**[10:56]** that are going to make the wrong decision

**[10:58]** that are in your cohort,

**[11:00]** that are gonna wait until the fall

**[11:02]** to be able to jump into this stuff.

**[11:05]** I mean, Paige, for, I don't know, damn near a decade,

**[11:09]** starting in the spring all the way to the fall,

**[11:12]** it's like peak, huge adrenaline dump,

**[11:16]** Maybe I get a little bit of time to rest depending on when my semi-final is.

**[11:20]** Peak even harder, even bigger adrenaline dump.

**[11:24]** And then like, I want to get back into training.

**[11:26]** I'm motivated because it's post games, but the games do a whole lot to your,

**[11:31]** you know, your hormones, your mind, your body, all of that.

**[11:34]** And then we're, you know, September, October when we're talking about,

**[11:39]** okay, what are we going to work on here?

**[11:41]** Whereas off season one, off season two, baseline testing and phase

**[11:46]** zero, we get a really good, we get a ton of momentum.

**[11:50]** And then we get a really good picture of where you're at and

**[11:53]** what you need to work on.

**[11:54]** And the high level competitor just appears back in this

**[12:00]** training mode in the fall.

**[12:02]** And then maybe they got to do rogue or what, there's, there's

**[12:04]** all these things that happen and you can get into a trap of not

**[12:08]** really being able to truly dig in and work on the things that you want to.

**[12:12]** So I just really want to put it out there that this is a good thing.

**[12:16]** If you have glaring weaknesses that you need to work on, this is a positive.

**[12:20]** Like for you, what was it like to continuously do that?

**[12:25]** I amount of recovery post games year after year had lengthened out.

**[12:32]** So like, yeah, I would say back in.

**[12:35]** So to put that in perspective 2021, I missed out on the game season.

**[12:40]** And again, I bought in, I committed 2022, 23, 24, made the games three years in a row.

**[12:48]** But each year after the games, it was like, okay, I need a month to recover.

**[12:53]** Okay.

**[12:54]** I need a month and a half to two months.

**[12:56]** Okay.

**[12:57]** I just went through a lot of injury, a lot of stress.

**[12:59]** I need basically until January rolls around, if not February, like close to the open, starting

**[13:05]** for me to feel like really ready to get back into structure and in training.

**[13:10]** So like to have from now until next February, like obviously it can seem like you're training

**[13:17]** for nothing, but I put that in quotations if you're, if you're just listening to this.

**[13:22]** Good call.

**[13:23]** It's gonna seem like you're training for quote nothing, but the amount of progress you can

**[13:28]** make in that time and get to do it slowly and very intentionally, like nothing really

**[13:32]** tops that.

**[13:33]** Yeah.

**[13:34]** I mean, my mind goes to so much in so many different directions, but this when you are

**[13:39]** doing competition prep, your energy systems have to be so dialed in that we don't have

**[13:49]** room for a ton of specific weakness work.

**[13:53]** And this is how you can see athletes at the CrossFit Games that are like dominating.

**[14:00]** And then the legless event is a problem with the hands down put just just these very specific

**[14:04]** things because again, the space needed to be able to make a huge change in something

**[14:10]** ultra specific during a comp prep isn't that easy. You know, we try to do it. It's more based on

**[14:16]** exposure than like the most perfect progression, that kind of thing. But if your intensity isn't

**[14:22]** in your monostructural conditioning and your metcons and your intervals and you aren't lifting

**[14:27]** heavy, there's going to be a problem there. So it's very, the execution during that period of

**[14:32]** of time is so sports specific that if we had a glaring weakness, you better hope that you're

**[14:38]** early in your career and your GPP is just lifting everything up in that moment.

**[14:44]** But that's not the kind of thing that's necessarily possible for a lot of athletes that have kind

**[14:48]** of a longer history.

**[14:50]** So off season block one is the time off season block one and off season block two, the next

**[14:55]** 15 to 16 weeks of programming is the time of year where we choose either a strength

**[15:02]** bias or a conditioning bias or the kind of third option that we're going to present this year.

**[15:07]** In a quick overview, let's say you're doing full volume. If you're doing full volume,

**[15:12]** strength bias is as simple as two lifts, one conditioning piece a day. If you're on the

**[15:18]** conditioning bias track, it is one lift and two conditioning pieces a day. If you are using the

**[15:23]** hybrid approach, which will have a video that allows you to template out how all of this works,

**[15:30]** it would be a certain amount of days of the week where you're doing the strength bias and a certain

**[15:34]** amount of days of the week where you're doing the conditioning bias. All of that has this massive

**[15:40]** asterisk next to it that is the total volume that you are executing on has to allow you to improve

**[15:49]** on the bias that you're trying to choose. So you might be looking at something and it will say

**[15:55]** say quarterfinals and semifinals level athletes, you know, two here and one here, one here

**[16:01]** and two here, and then open athletes are just going to choose a lift and a conditioning

**[16:06]** every day.

**[16:08]** There are a lot of athletes that are at a higher level that would benefit from certain

**[16:11]** days of the week of just doing one and one.

**[16:14]** For me personally, if I was still a quarterfinals level athlete, there would be a lot of days

**[16:21]** where I would have to choose one and one because I'm a hyper responder to stimulus and the

**[16:28]** further I go down that rabbit hole, the more I could just get driven into the ground basically.

**[16:33]** So things to really take into account here. Also, the volume choices that you make also

**[16:40]** should have a lot to do with your lifestyle factors. Like, if you're going to try to jam

**[16:47]** three pieces into an hour or an hour and a half,

**[16:50]** regardless of how good you are,

**[16:52]** it's just not gonna, you're not gonna get the response

**[16:54]** that we're looking for in this style of programming.

**[16:57]** So we could have a situation where it's

**[16:59]** open athlete instructions for two or three days a week

**[17:02]** and quarter finals slash semi-finals level instructions

**[17:06]** for one or two days a week.

**[17:08]** And again, entirely separate video

**[17:11]** that I'm gonna share with all of you guys

**[17:12]** that shows you how to create a template for yourself.

**[17:15]** and we'll go over all of that stuff in detail.

**[17:17]** But I just wanted to like really dig into it right now because the way that you

**[17:24]** execute on this will have like, that's the longest lever that you can pull.

**[17:28]** Not the specific programming, the execution of the programming that you do.

**[17:34]** Like if we're saying we're trying to get better at conditioning or we're trying

**[17:38]** to get better at strength and you can't tell the difference between the sessions

**[17:43]** over the course of a day, it's just gonna be a problem.

**[17:47]** It's not really gonna work in the way that we want it to.

**[17:49]** What would you say are like common mistakes

**[17:53]** you see athletes make this time of year?

**[17:55]** Probably too much volume in a short period of time.

**[17:59]** That's kind of the biggest issue that I see.

**[18:01]** And it's not, again, it's not based on ability.

**[18:04]** If you don't have the opportunity to get into the gym

**[18:08]** for two hours plus or two sessions,

**[18:11]** one in one is gonna be great.

**[18:12]** And what's cool about this is you have options for accessory,

**[18:16]** you have options for skill progressions,

**[18:19]** things that require less intensity

**[18:22]** that can be put into those gaps of time

**[18:24]** where you would normally cram another conditioning piece

**[18:27]** or cram another lift and not get very much out of it.

**[18:30]** But that would be the number one thing.

**[18:32]** I used to think that people chose the wrong bias

**[18:36]** and then we talked to enough athletes

**[18:38]** and you actually made this comment last year

**[18:40]** about like coming off of quarterfinals,

**[18:44]** even if it's just for OS one,

**[18:47]** and it sounds not fun at all,

**[18:49]** like you don't wanna do it,

**[18:50]** then it's probably the wrong choice.

**[18:52]** So like, if you're like, I'm good at lifting,

**[18:55]** but I like to lift,

**[18:56]** and that's gonna keep me going

**[18:58]** and give me the runway I need

**[19:00]** to do a conditioning bias in OS two, fantastic.

**[19:04]** So you all know which one you need,

**[19:08]** whether it's hybrid strength or conditioning.

**[19:11]** Like could not possibly be more obvious for athletes.

**[19:16]** But if you listen to this and you're like,

**[19:20]** oh, it sounds boring on the strength side maybe,

**[19:23]** or like, man, I don't know that I can get myself together

**[19:27]** for that second conditioning piece five days a week,

**[19:30]** then, you know, maybe don't do it.

**[19:32]** I assume you still have that same opinion page,

**[19:36]** but like, I think that's really important

**[19:38]** time of year. Yeah, I agree. I think having allowing yourself the runway of like just

**[19:43]** getting back into structure is really important. Yeah, I definitely find myself wanting that

**[19:49]** as one of the first things when it when it when it comes time for me to like want to
