---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395"
published: 2026-04-08
episode_number: "395"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:54"
chunk_end: "29:52"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395 - Chunk 3

Episode: [[../episode|How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395]]

## Transcript

**[19:54]** get into training again. So yeah, I definitely that definitely sold true for sure. Yeah.

**[20:02]** So there are going to be some changes to the subscriptions in OS2, but I am going to try

**[20:10]** to be as customer forward as I can.

**[20:13]** I try to help make the changes that I think are necessary with things like subscription

**[20:20]** options and things that we offer.

**[20:22]** And I just don't think that I'm in the athlete or consumer's headspace.

**[20:28]** So we are basically going to have an entire programming block where we're going to show

**[20:34]** you what the subscription options are without you having to pay more and then you get to

**[20:40]** decide.

**[20:41]** So Pro will move down into Comp.

**[20:44]** I'm not 100% on that.

**[20:45]** I don't know that I want Pro to exist outside of remote coaching because it's such a rare

**[20:51]** situation where someone is at that level and wants to execute.

**[20:56]** And I thought that by making it $70 a month, people would like listen to this description

**[21:03]** and they don't.

**[21:04]** Most people that follow pro shouldn't be.

**[21:07]** And I tried to like price people out of it and that didn't work.

**[21:10]** So in true business fashion of myself, I'm just going to make it not like I want those

**[21:16]** people either to at least see hatchet and get into telegram and realize this is where

**[21:21]** I need to be.

**[21:22]** you know, like five or six semi-finals qualifiers in the last three or four years from that program.

**[21:29]** That's what I want to happen. And then I'm going to allow people, the new subscription at that

**[21:35]** price point will be Comp Plus, and I will allow people to decide what level of access and interaction

**[21:43]** they have on the same program. So Comp Plus will be the same programs that you get to view,

**[21:49]** But there will be weekly group calls where we go over block by block on the programming.

**[21:56]** There will be one this Friday that everyone will have access to.

**[22:00]** And I'm going to run that through OS one.

**[22:01]** I'm going to talk to you guys about the programming every single week.

**[22:04]** You can ask questions.

**[22:06]** Now I wrote everyone gets video review.

**[22:10]** That's obviously not possible if it's the entire comp subscription.

**[22:14]** There's just too many people.

**[22:16]** in Comp Plus, you will all get video review.

**[22:19]** And I will basically post examples of what to expect that I take from people.

**[22:25]** So if you want video review with some of your lifts, with some of your gymnastics, whatever

**[22:29]** it is, you can post those in Telegram.

**[22:32]** Maybe I'll make a separate channel where you just post those and I'll snag a couple of

**[22:35]** week, do a video review, post it.

**[22:38]** And then you get to see, okay, this is what my video review would look like.

**[22:42]** This is what these meetings are going to look like.

**[22:44]** And then if you decide to subscribe to that in OS2, it will just by default be a smaller

**[22:50]** group and be a lot easier for us to communicate in that way.

**[22:53]** So we're basically going to do a preview and people who are going to sign up for comp plus,

**[22:59]** I will probably have a separate meeting with them and ask for a little bit of feedback

**[23:03]** related to that.

**[23:04]** It's basically just trying to build something where, okay, I want something closer to remote

**[23:08]** coaching, I can't afford it.

**[23:11]** What does that look like?

**[23:12]** That will be what the comp plus subscription looks like.

**[23:16]** All right, finally, we're here.

**[23:18]** What is in off season block one?

**[23:21]** The way that we're gonna structure this

**[23:22]** is I'm gonna talk about what everyone is going to do,

**[23:26]** then what the strength bias additions would be,

**[23:28]** conditioning bias, and then we'll get

**[23:29]** into accessory and skill.

**[23:30]** So day one is going to have

**[23:34]** a touch and go deadlift progression.

**[23:37]** This one is from the archives.

**[23:40]** This is one of the first strength programs that I wrote,

**[23:46]** strength progressions that I wrote,

**[23:48]** where we saw an outsized return on investment

**[23:52]** that I was like really excited about.

**[23:54]** So you guys are basically going to run

**[23:56]** through that progression.

**[23:57]** It's gonna be touch and go deadlift.

**[23:59]** And again, there's like just certain things

**[24:03]** in strength and conditioning where you're like,

**[24:04]** looks fine, and then it works really well.

**[24:08]** And I don't know exactly what it is.

**[24:10]** It's definitely with the deadlift kind of below threshold

**[24:14]** type numbers, but those numbers are still really heavy

**[24:18]** with a deadlift.

**[24:19]** So you can see why there would be a nervous system response,

**[24:23]** but it looks pretty normal and it works better

**[24:26]** than all of the other ones that we do.

**[24:28]** So we're gonna do it.

**[24:29]** And I hope you guys see the kind of returns

**[24:31]** that we've had over the years.

**[24:33]** The conditioning piece is going to be

**[24:35]** aerobic gears progression with a C2 bike bias.

**[24:39]** So basically starting in week one, going every other week, there's going to be

**[24:43]** an aerobic C2 bike piece that everybody's going to do.

**[24:48]** And then in between weeks, we will just sort of alternate through different

**[24:51]** sessions, ski row, mix machine, echo bike, all that good stuff.

**[24:55]** Paige, at any point, comments, questions, just, you just jump right in.

**[24:59]** Let them fire.

**[25:00]** Yeah.

**[25:01]** Just, just tell me to shut my app.

**[25:02]** I, I think, I think I like the, the

**[25:05]** touch and go deadlift because like you said, they're manageable weights.

**[25:09]** But what that does is it allows athletes to gain the adaptation but also keep the movement

**[25:17]** quality high.

**[25:20]** Keep the tension, keep the positions, the midline, all that can really kind of take

**[25:26]** hold.

**[25:27]** The eccentric is big too if it's not like cross-bitty.

**[25:31]** We used to do the...

**[25:32]** Get a lot of studios from that.

**[25:33]** I don't think I looked in depth enough at the deadlift progression that we have done it

**[25:38]** I don't know if you remember doing it, but you've definitely done it before yeah

**[25:42]** Yeah, the control the neck yeah the moment you said that I'm like I definitely have done this before

**[25:47]** Yeah, it is a good one a lot of the like library deadlift phases are based on how well this one went

**[25:55]** So we're not necessarily looking for that exact thing because it probably gets a little heavier than making that possible

**[26:01]** but that is kind of the baseline that you're trying to set.

**[26:04]** You want to see how close you can get to it

**[26:06]** through the face.

**[26:07]** Day two is going to be the tempo, squat, snatch progression.

**[26:12]** What is new about this is we are having you do tempo

**[26:17]** two different positions.

**[26:18]** I've used this in remote coaching quite a few times

**[26:22]** because it's a progression.

**[26:24]** It's like, okay, the first one, we're going tempo

**[26:28]** from the floor all the way to power position

**[26:31]** and then we're getting aggressive,

**[26:32]** but then you can't just snap your fingers

**[26:34]** and ask someone to have the same level of control

**[26:36]** at full speed.

**[26:37]** So then we go tempo to a lower position,

**[26:40]** and then we go tempo to a lower position,

**[26:42]** and we work our way through that,

**[26:44]** and you can really get a better understanding

**[26:46]** of where you're at with all of the positions

**[26:50]** and sort of what your weak points are with the tempo.

**[26:52]** So the addition is basically the tempo

**[26:56]** isn't all the way to power position

**[26:58]** every single rep throughout the phase.

**[27:00]** it sort of works its way down to allow you to figure out

**[27:04]** how to gain speed in your pulls

**[27:07]** without sort of losing positioning.

**[27:09]** Yeah, I mean, you've had me test out

**[27:11]** a few different styles of this and you're like,

**[27:14]** hey, did you notice your feet didn't jump backwards

**[27:17]** on this lift?

**[27:18]** And I was like, yeah, got it.

**[27:22]** So yeah, I mean, I like this.

**[27:23]** It's the positional strength, the awareness,

**[27:27]** like the discipline under the load.

**[27:29]** There's a lot of benefit that comes from this.

**[27:31]** And we know how technical this snatch can be.

**[27:33]** It's not necessarily a total strength issue for people with snatching.

**[27:39]** It's the technical side of it.

**[27:40]** So this is that time to really dial in.

**[27:43]** For sure.

**[27:44]** Got a mandatory interval on day two every week.

**[27:48]** Listen, interval season and bitch work season for sure, a lot less Metcons specifically.

**[27:55]** huge level of stimulus here when you have rest in between.

**[28:00]** But it's also your roadmap to athlete IQ.

**[28:04]** The bitch work, you have the gears,

**[28:07]** obviously if you're new to us,

**[28:09]** we will help you figure out what your gears matrix

**[28:12]** looks like, but then you have a screen in front of you

**[28:15]** and your ridiculous shuttle run pace or burpee pace

**[28:21]** or whatever that you keep introducing into moments

**[28:23]** where it's not appropriate would be a 130

**[28:27]** on your C2 monitor and it'd be like, that's not right.

**[28:30]** I shouldn't be doing that.

**[28:32]** Or at least it should feel that way.

**[28:33]** And then we trace that down to intervals

**[28:36]** and a lot of the intervals

**[28:37]** intentionally have machines as well.

**[28:39]** So it's like I get the rest to reevaluate how I'm doing

**[28:45]** if I'm pacing this properly,

**[28:46]** but I also go from the machine into a cross-fitting movement,

**[28:51]** gymnastics movement, a weightlifting movement.

**[28:53]** And that allows me to start to put the puzzle pieces together of.

**[28:59]** What does this feel like?

**[29:01]** I'm then going to rest and hopefully have the wherewithal while exercising

**[29:05]** to reevaluate, and then I go back to it.

**[29:08]** And eventually the intervals, especially in OS two will be a little bit more

**[29:13]** cross-bitty and you can be like, try to translate the feeling.

**[29:17]** I really think that is the missing piece for so many athletes, not understanding how to

**[29:24]** translate like they execute really well in the machine work, they get into CrossFit and

**[29:29]** they go back to like week three of CrossFit where round one is six times faster than round

**[29:35]** five.

**[29:37]** So we have to be able to translate those things.

**[29:38]** And again, eventually we get into phase one, phase two, phase three, and we try to lock

**[29:44]** in on being able to execute that at different speeds in Metcons. So we are laying out breadcrumbs
