---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395"
published: 2026-04-08
episode_number: "395"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:52"
chunk_end: "39:45"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395 - Chunk 4

Episode: [[../episode|How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395]]

## Transcript

**[29:52]** for an athlete IQ starting now and it will go all the way to open prep in 2027. And I just hope

**[30:00]** you're following the trail because a lot of you could maybe use a little bit of that. Really fit,

**[30:09]** get tough to execute.

**[30:13]** That's a bummer.

**[30:14]** Yeah, I like to think of, I mean, I kind of just came up with this in my mind, but like

**[30:20]** we talk about zone two training being like that baseline level of your fitness, right?

**[30:25]** And then every gear from above is a little more effort, a little bit harder.

**[30:30]** I like to think of the athlete IQ from like off season one is the baseline of that, like

**[30:37]** information that you're gaining. And then off season two is another layer up. So it's like,

**[30:43]** you want to be able to build your athlete IQ off of what you are learning in off season one.

**[30:48]** So like, this is really like you want to get intention and learn what athlete IQ means like

**[30:54]** this is the time to take that extra effort there and put it into this.

**[30:59]** And the community just did it better than they ever have for the last few months on

**[31:04]** on Telegram.

**[31:05]** It's got like a hive mind kind of situation

**[31:08]** where people are having these conversations

**[31:10]** and having these realizations

**[31:12]** and then they're putting it into their pro,

**[31:14]** they're putting it into, you know, the daily programming,

**[31:16]** but then also obviously the opening quarterfinals.

**[31:19]** And I would say that culture that is going right now

**[31:23]** is the best that it's ever been.

**[31:25]** So if you are deciding whether you're gonna join us

**[31:28]** for this season or not, get your ass in Telegram.

**[31:31]** It's not, there's no making any money from it.

**[31:34]** Like it is basically free education,

**[31:37]** free community, free camaraderie.

**[31:38]** So get in there and do that.

**[31:40]** And you probably have more fun doing it

**[31:43]** and get better at it while you go.

**[31:45]** Day three, we have the strict press volume progression.

**[31:50]** This, I didn't write this.

**[31:52]** Like if I told you guys that I came up

**[31:55]** with linear progression on my own, that would be a problem.

**[31:58]** But this is my origin story.

**[32:00]** This is, you know, falling into the well and seeing the bats.

**[32:05]** You know, this is where I come from.

**[32:07]** I got made fun of for being weak

**[32:11]** by the person who was trying to make me stronger.

**[32:13]** I then went on my own and did my own research

**[32:16]** and got significantly stronger.

**[32:18]** And it was three by 10 bench press.

**[32:20]** And it was probably like 10 at 95, 10 at 100, 10 at 105.

**[32:26]** And then ended up getting to a point where I was flirting

**[32:30]** with what my one or two rep max was, you know, with that.

**[32:33]** I added 50 pounds to my bench press,

**[32:36]** obviously a lot easier to do when you're 17 years old,

**[32:39]** but my love affair with programming began there.

**[32:43]** And every time I go back to it, it works.

**[32:46]** It always works.

**[32:47]** And I shied away from programming it

**[32:49]** outside of remote coaching settings,

**[32:53]** because writing it can be confusing.

**[32:56]** And a lot of you that followed last year,

**[32:58]** You basically add five pounds to every set every week

**[33:02]** until you can't, and then there's a little video link

**[33:05]** and you click it and I'm like,

**[33:06]** here's what you do with that.

**[33:07]** We go over to instead of sets of 10,

**[33:09]** we go over to sets of eight and we rewind two weeks

**[33:13]** and we try to sort of fly back through with that progression.

**[33:16]** So the volume progressions work really, really well.

**[33:22]** McEnas bench.

**[33:23]** Makenna did a five rep max and then added five pounds every single week and got up to

**[33:30]** her one rep max.

**[33:31]** I don't know if she made it for five.

**[33:33]** I think she definitely made it for four reps.

**[33:35]** Did she make it for five?

**[33:37]** Yeah she either did her one rep for five or five pounds less or whatever it was to the

**[33:44]** point where I was like, she is the dream remote client in terms of communication.

**[33:51]** Hey, I need this video.

**[33:53]** Put your notes in that whole deal.

**[33:55]** And I was like, she's, you know, she's fallen off the wagon.

**[33:59]** She's not telling me what's going on anymore.

**[34:02]** There's no way she's still doing this progression.

**[34:04]** She's like, what do you mean?

**[34:06]** Look, what the fuck?

**[34:06]** What is happening?

**[34:08]** And it's funny too, because whoever was spotting her would just stand there shaking their

**[34:12]** head.

**[34:13]** Like, what is happening?

**[34:14]** So yeah, linear progression works really well.

**[34:17]** Power output conditioning piece for everybody on that day.

**[34:22]** I will tell you guys that there are different avenues in which you get better at sprinty

**[34:29]** things.

**[34:30]** So we have the three gears.

**[34:33]** We have P1, P2, and P3.

**[34:35]** P1, full send, everything you got.

**[34:38]** I don't care if you get slower, not a big deal.

**[34:40]** And then the other two are just basically backing off a tiny bit from those two things.

**[34:45]** And execution of that, like understanding what full send is, it's not like close to

**[34:53]** as hard as you can go.

**[34:55]** Like you should, if you sprint for 15 seconds on an Echo Bike, as hard as you possibly can,

**[35:03]** and truly try to give the same amount of effort all the way through the entire thing, try

**[35:08]** to get up to speed as fast as possible, you will notice a difference.

**[35:13]** And we need to sort of create the system around it where if you're not good at that kind of

**[35:19]** thing, you are building the strength, you know, more often than not in the lower half

**[35:25]** is going to help quite a bit.

**[35:27]** And you are thinking about accessory work like I am actually trying to get stronger

**[35:32]** here.

**[35:33]** I'm not just going through the motions.

**[35:34]** I'm taking the full rest.

**[35:36]** You know, I'm trying to progress through these things.

**[35:39]** So power output, the expression of it is very important to make sure that we are rounding

**[35:45]** out our energy systems.

**[35:47]** And that's the kind of thing where you really executing on your lifting and really putting

**[35:54]** the eggs into the basket of like, really, this is it like five times 15 seconds or whatever.

**[36:00]** If done properly, you won't say that.

**[36:03]** That won't be the case.

**[36:05]** What would you say is like the most common thing for athletes to get wrong when it comes

**[36:10]** to their power output?

**[36:12]** I know my first thing is that people just cherry pick it.

**[36:15]** People do cherry pick it.

**[36:16]** That is one thing.

**[36:18]** This is something where ego has to be put aside for me.

**[36:22]** I get stimulus so easily from sprints and heavy lifting because that's what my body

**[36:28]** naturally wants to do.

**[36:30]** So early in my career when I would watch someone, I'd just be like, they're not trying hard

**[36:35]** up that kind of thing. There's just part of it's like an attitude, just like I would be a negative

**[36:41]** Nancy and then be more stressed out if I have to go long and slow and that would then make the

**[36:45]** session not as good. It's the same concept here, right? Like could you create the environment

**[36:52]** where you're all hopped up on caffeine and you get the music right and you're trying to get more

**[36:58]** calories than a previous version of yourself or race somebody else? Can you figure out if you're

**[37:04]** you're more of an endurance athlete, how to condense a long, grindy effort into five by

**[37:11]** 15 seconds. Can you pull that off? That would be my number one thing because I like to egg

**[37:18]** people on and something like this in person. It's really fun for me to do because I know

**[37:23]** that I can put them into a really bad spot. Like you remember you and McKenna on the C2

**[37:28]** bike while brunch was being cooked at the gym?

**[37:31]** Like smellin' babies.

**[37:32]** I don't know, I don't know that you guys had quite had those sessions like that bad.

**[37:39]** Yeah, maybe once.

**[37:40]** Leading up to that one.

**[37:42]** Exactly.

**[37:43]** And I don't mean you like forever.

**[37:45]** Like I've seen you do it a bunch of times.

**[37:47]** There's a lot of slow-mo videos of you in the pain cave, you know, when you're visiting.

**[37:51]** But finding a way to create that, to bury yourself in that, which is the intention,

**[37:57]** is incredibly important.

**[37:59]** And then I do see a lot of athletes that say that they don't really know, they can't really

**[38:03]** feel the difference between those three things.

**[38:06]** My God, the difference between 15 and 30 seconds on a sprint is like, it feels a lot longer

**[38:13]** than twice as long.

**[38:15]** So it's about dialing that in, it's about trying to figure it out, that sort of deal.

**[38:21]** And then I just think the same type of athlete has the same issues in a lifting session.

**[38:26]** concepts. If you gave me, I don't know, three by 20, I would just not know how or what it felt like

**[38:33]** to truly grind from reps 12 to 20. And again, an athlete who struggles with power output,

**[38:40]** being able to warm up properly and get their nervous system excited enough to then go put that

**[38:47]** amount of effort into a lifting session, I think is tough mentally for a certain type of athlete.

**[38:54]** Okay, day four and day seven, it's going to be you guys choice which one is a flush day,

**[38:58]** which one is a zone two C bike, C zone to see to bike day. We've got instructions in there for

**[39:04]** you guys. If you want to do a zone one too much volume, I'm beat up, do a zone one. Also, if you

**[39:10]** are incredibly fit or just a beast on a bike, zone one is more effective for you. The fitter you are,

**[39:18]** essentially, when it comes to that. You guys can make your call on the flush day. I've switched

**[39:26]** back to what I think moves the needle the most, and that is the alternating machines with the

**[39:31]** mobility versus a boot camp class kind of situation. If you guys want to continue to

**[39:39]** do the get off the bike and do walking lunges, go for it. But if I'm looking for a true rest day,
