---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395"
published: 2026-04-08
episode_number: "395"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:43"
chunk_end: "59:42"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395 - Chunk 6

Episode: [How to Attack Weaknesses Following Quarterfinals: Offseason Block 1 - E.395](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:43]** your strict handstand pushups are gonna burn out,

**[49:45]** things like that.

**[49:46]** So like being able to translate that from a barbell

**[49:49]** or vice versa, like really, you know,

**[49:51]** can improve not only your barbell pressing,

**[49:55]** but your gymnastics pressing as well.

**[49:57]** And it's very counterintuitive to,

**[49:59]** I think the reason why we struggle with it

**[50:01]** in the CrossFit space is because, like,

**[50:05]** if I've got 135 pound front squats in a longer workout,

**[50:10]** like, I'm gonna try to dial back the intensity.

**[50:14]** I'm gonna try to move through it

**[50:15]** in a way where I'm breathing through it

**[50:16]** and I'm feeling very controlled

**[50:18]** so that I can stay under control.

**[50:20]** And if you do that in strict pressing,

**[50:23]** unless you were, I don't know, an Olympic swimmer

**[50:26]** and somehow have the upper body muscle endurance

**[50:29]** of, you know, Michael Phelps or something,

**[50:30]** like, it's just not gonna work.

**[50:33]** So it feels counterintuitive.

**[50:34]** And there are a lot of places in CrossFit

**[50:36]** where you have to be dynamic in the name

**[50:39]** of lowering time under tension,

**[50:42]** where you could take the same amount of time

**[50:45]** as someone who's pressing slowly,

**[50:47]** but you actually get rest periods built in.

**[50:49]** And that's where the rest comes from.

**[50:51]** Day two, strength bias edition is hang power clean volume.

**[50:55]** This is straight up nasty barbell cycling untamed.

**[51:00]** until almost all of the blood in your entire body

**[51:04]** is in your forearms.

**[51:05]** That's what we're looking for here.

**[51:07]** This is a stimulus bomb.

**[51:08]** There are so many things in this phase

**[51:11]** where we're dialing back and we're slowing down.

**[51:14]** And if you want to get stronger, fitter, whatever,

**[51:18]** there's a level of intensity that needs to be brought.

**[51:20]** And we are bringing it basically every other day

**[51:23]** with a lift on the strength bias

**[51:25]** and the hang power clean volume is going to be that.

**[51:28]** Not really a ton to say about that.

**[51:30]** Please don't move like shit.

**[51:31]** I was gonna say, like, are you looking for people

**[51:33]** to use the bounce?

**[51:34]** Are you, like, I know there's no in there, but what?

**[51:37]** What does the note say?

**[51:39]** It says, no bounce or hip cleans.

**[51:41]** So again, that's being like as intentional as you can be

**[51:46]** of hitting your positions as well.

**[51:48]** It is the hang, power, clean equivalent

**[51:51]** of what we talked about with the deadlift.

**[51:53]** I don't want you to gamify your lifting

**[51:58]** so that we can create the oscillation on the barbell

**[52:01]** and have it be wait list for half of the lift.

**[52:04]** That's not going to give you the same kind of stimulus.

**[52:07]** I think there's a reason why the hang clean

**[52:09]** has died out in competition

**[52:11]** because of what we're talking about here,

**[52:13]** but it is still a really great stimulus tool.

**[52:17]** So if we can force you guys to,

**[52:19]** like Hunter came up with the below the knee,

**[52:22]** the workout that everybody was pissed off about,

**[52:24]** like on paper, just didn't really look that bad.

**[52:26]** And then it was,

**[52:27]** This is going to be that kind of version and it is drop sets.

**[52:31]** So the idea would be heaviest weight first, and then we're going to work

**[52:35]** down from there and see how far you can push it.

**[52:37]** And that's how we really kind of push the end ranges.

**[52:40]** So we want the extra eccentric portion and grip work to be part of it.

**[52:47]** To create stimulus day three, heavy front squats are the addition on a strength bias.

**[52:53]** You don't get to do triple double single because it's a skill movement.

**[52:58]** I want to force better movement by allowing for it to be better with

**[53:03]** fives and fours and threes.

**[53:05]** They're still heavy.

**[53:06]** They're still going to create adaptation, but the way that you front squat and

**[53:11]** the way that it translates to a clean and to a back squat really matters.

**[53:17]** So we're not just going to do these to do them.

**[53:20]** Uh, old school lifting, you know, you.

**[53:22]** sets of five, sets of four, sets of three, they're going to move the needle over the

**[53:26]** course of an eight week progression.

**[53:30]** But we're not going to go so heavy with the double single that we start to bastardize

**[53:36]** the movement because it just doesn't really create the kind of adaptation that we want.

**[53:41]** And we're also doing a ton of back squatting.

**[53:44]** What would you say?

**[53:46]** What would you say if I'm an athlete that chooses the heavy front squats?

**[53:51]** What are some of the reasons I would choose that?

**[53:54]** And like, what am I thinking about through the fives, fours, and threes rather than like,

**[53:59]** threes, twos, and ones?

**[54:00]** I just think you have to accept that you would choose it because it's a weakness, that you

**[54:04]** want to improve it, but you have to accept that it's a weakness because of the way that

**[54:08]** you move probably.

**[54:09]** It's very rare that we see an athlete move super well that doesn't like front squats.

**[54:15]** So sitting the hips back too far like a powerlifting movement, right?

**[54:19]** Not having a full grip on the barbell.

**[54:21]** that narrow grip where you put your hands kind of closer in what we would call like

**[54:26]** a Metcon style. Hey, 65, 75, 95 pounds. I don't really care. Do what you got to do.

**[54:33]** But I want external rotation. I want it to be more in the clean grip. I want the hand

**[54:38]** wrapped all the way around to create tension so that the upper back is stacked and organized

**[54:44]** in the way that the lower back is. So you've got to change the way that you move if you

**[54:48]** you want to be able to front squat 400 slash 300 pounds,

**[54:52]** like that kind of thing.

**[54:53]** If you want to be able to do that,

**[54:54]** you have to move in a certain way or be an absolute ogre,

**[54:59]** in which case don't choose it.

**[55:01]** There wouldn't be any reason to choose it.

**[55:03]** Bench press volume progression, same concept here,

**[55:06]** same thing that we are working on with the strict press

**[55:10]** and the back squat.

**[55:12]** We want to even out anytime we're doing

**[55:14]** any extra overhead pressing,

**[55:16]** We want to even out our planes of pressing.

**[55:19]** It's going to make you stronger.

**[55:21]** It's going to create a better system,

**[55:25]** better connective tissue related to anterior,

**[55:28]** posterior shoulder, chest, all of that stuff

**[55:30]** sort of being together.

**[55:33]** And it's just going to improve your pressing.

**[55:34]** It's going to put you in better positions

**[55:36]** to be able to do so, give you a better range of motion

**[55:39]** when you are pressing through those different planes.

**[55:41]** Last but not least, we are doing some heavy power snatch.

**[55:45]** This is intentionally polarizing the training style

**[55:50]** of tempo on the squat snatch.

**[55:53]** So we are going to give you guys weights and reps

**[55:59]** where we're looking for a certain level of velocity

**[56:02]** as you make your way from your first pull to your second

**[56:05]** and your third pull and finish.

**[56:07]** And that is going to allow you to basically

**[56:10]** bring the whole system together.

**[56:12]** We need to be able to eventually move faster

**[56:16]** to be able to lift heavier weights,

**[56:18]** but with the snatch, we need the positioning as well.

**[56:21]** So that's where that comes from there.

**[56:23]** Basically making your way, I believe,

**[56:26]** from fives to twos all the way down through.

**[56:30]** Drop and reset, putting yourself

**[56:31]** into really great positions, that sort of deal.

**[56:34]** Power snatch would definitely be one of the ones

**[56:36]** that I think would be a candidate for a video review.

**[56:39]** I think a lot of people change the way that they move.

**[56:42]** kind of heavey, it's kind of muscley.

**[56:44]** So that would be one where if you struggle

**[56:47]** with the power snatch, there's usually a pretty good reason.

**[56:49]** Or if your endurance in the power snatch goes away,

**[56:53]** rep one feels amazing and rep five feels absolutely terrible.

**[56:56]** Probably a little bit of an over pulling situation

**[56:58]** where you're not trying to get under the bar,

**[57:00]** that sort of deal.

**[57:01]** So if you're a strength bias athlete

**[57:04]** going into this off season,

**[57:07]** how looking at all the lifting as a whole,

**[57:10]** so there's 10 lifts,

**[57:11]** How do they compliment each other?

**[57:12]** Like out of the, how do the non, I guess you would say

**[57:15]** the non-mandatory as a whole.

**[57:18]** How do they compliment the mandatory lifts?

**[57:21]** Yeah, so basically what you're looking at is,

**[57:24]** I wouldn't call it accessory work,

**[57:25]** but I'm personally thinking about it

**[57:27]** when I'm writing it for you guys in the same way.

**[57:29]** A lot of it is just what's appropriate.

**[57:31]** If we are going to prioritize the first five lifts

**[57:35]** that we talked about,

**[57:36]** what's appropriate to be added to those things,

**[57:38]** but it's also what's missing.

**[57:40]** Like what don't we have here?

**[57:42]** If I was gonna write a program

**[57:43]** to get somebody better at pressing,

**[57:46]** they would do volume work, speed work and heavy work.

**[57:50]** So that's where a lot of that stuff kind of comes in.

**[57:52]** Talked about the polarizing with the snatch being there.

**[57:55]** We have, because the volume back squat progression

**[57:58]** is a single day and because the clean is positional,

**[58:02]** we have an opportunity to work on another squat variation,

**[58:06]** which typically doesn't fit as easily into a program.

**[58:09]** So being able to give people those heavy front squats

**[58:12]** is something that's a bit of a luxury this time of year.

**[58:15]** So it has a lot to do with what is appropriate

**[58:20]** on top of those first five that we talked about.

**[58:22]** And then what is going to benefit those things specifically.

**[58:25]** Conditioning bias additions,

**[58:27]** these are gonna be quick and dirty here.

**[58:29]** Day one, you're gonna have a mandatory Metcon.

**[58:32]** This is just, this is athlete IQ work.

**[58:35]** If you need a conditioning bias,

**[58:38]** Half of you need it because you just don't know how to execute on Mac cons.

**[58:42]** And again, I appreciate your hard work enough that I want you to figure out

**[58:48]** what the heck you're doing when you are doing the actual sport.

**[58:52]** So we're going to practice it twice a week.

**[58:53]** And honestly, I'd rather see you back off at first and figure it out

**[58:59]** than continue to do the opposite.

**[59:01]** Cause that's when we see someone it's, it's rare that an athlete is just too

**[59:06]** all the time with their Metcons.

**[59:08]** If they're not good at athlete IQ,

**[59:09]** it's normally early on in the set is just like,

**[59:13]** or early on in the workout, you know, round one,

**[59:16]** that sort of thing is just like an absolute problem.

**[59:20]** They're like just ramming their head into the wall

**[59:22]** at the beginning of a workout.

**[59:24]** So we would rather see you guys back off a little bit

**[59:27]** to figure these things out than do the opposite.

**[59:29]** Then, all right, I got to do Metcons

**[59:31]** and get it better at those.

**[59:32]** Let's stomp the gas pedal once again.

**[59:34]** Once again, you will get enough intensity with the amount of intervals that we're doing.

**[59:39]** Please pay attention to the way that you execute.
