---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394"
published: 2026-03-31
episode_number: "394"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're all Misfits! Alright you can't take bunch of Misfits! You're a scrappy little Misfit just like me. Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said I've done.

**[00:30]** about certain aspects of the season,

**[00:33]** but then we're going to do what we do.

**[00:34]** We're going to talk about, like,

**[00:36]** what do you do about when you run into roadblocks,

**[00:39]** when you have outlier workouts,

**[00:41]** when you have things that you need to improve on?

**[00:43]** We warned you before the Open

**[00:46]** that all of the workouts were going to be medium duration,

**[00:48]** and we warned you before quarterfinals

**[00:49]** that all of the workouts were going to be short.

**[00:52]** Do we like it?

**[00:53]** Tune in to find out.

**[00:56]** But it is data, and it is information that we can use

**[00:58]** to help Misfit athletics athletes get better.

**[01:03]** Before we get into all of that,

**[01:04]** we're gonna jump into a little bit of housekeeping,

**[01:06]** just reiterating what's coming up in programming.

**[01:09]** So the biggest thing here,

**[01:12]** you shouldn't be fast forwarding through the housekeeping

**[01:14]** because if you want to do a semi-finals prep peaking program,

**[01:20]** age group online, age group in person,

**[01:23]** individual in person, individual online,

**[01:25]** you have to reach out to us directly.

**[01:28]** You can do that on Telegram, Instagram, email,

**[01:31]** coachatmissedathletics.com.

**[01:32]** Get in touch so we can let you know

**[01:34]** what your best course of action is,

**[01:36]** and we'll probably get you into one of the

**[01:39]** more private Telegram groups

**[01:40]** where we deliver the programming.

**[01:42]** So make sure you get in touch with us there.

**[01:44]** The bulk of people who are gonna be doing

**[01:47]** an online prep program,

**[01:48]** we're actually gonna talk about who should follow that

**[01:51]** and who shouldn't.

**[01:51]** Spoiler, it's not 2,000 people on the men's and women's side.

**[01:56]** Those people are starting sort of towards the end of April.

**[01:59]** I think it's like April 27th.

**[02:00]** If you are prepping for something like NorCal Classic,

**[02:02]** you get to start next week.

**[02:04]** How exciting is that?

**[02:06]** And then we've got, I'll bury one of the leads there

**[02:09]** for one of our shout outs.

**[02:10]** So this week on our programming is cherry picking week.

**[02:14]** There is a program, if you subscribe to GPP,

**[02:17]** hatchet, masters, pro, affiliate, there is a program.

**[02:20]** It's just, you log in and you do your thing every day,

**[02:23]** like any other day throughout the year.

**[02:25]** but there's also PDFs of every other program

**[02:29]** and our benchmarks.

**[02:30]** And I'm giving the affiliate program

**[02:32]** to people who are competitive.

**[02:33]** Basically what we're looking for is for you

**[02:36]** to either take extra rest days, take an affiliate class,

**[02:41]** go for a bike ride, a jog,

**[02:42]** or there's tons of people who just,

**[02:45]** they do all of this because they wanna be doing it

**[02:47]** and they wanna keep doing it.

**[02:48]** So when you log in and you see aerobic mixed machine,

**[02:53]** 15 minutes of rotating through machines, you can be like, I don't want to do that.

**[02:57]** Or I want to do that at moderate intensity, or I want to bury myself in round one.

**[03:01]** You can all kiss my ass.

**[03:03]** Just do your thing.

**[03:04]** Right.

**[03:05]** The flow chart that I took 30 seconds making with AI was do I want to do it?

**[03:09]** Yes.

**[03:09]** Do it.

**[03:10]** Do I not want to do it?

**[03:11]** No.

**[03:11]** Choose something else.

**[03:12]** We gave you a lot of options.

**[03:13]** So if you, some people commented, like, I know a lot of athletes, there's the

**[03:17]** type of athlete that like being able to choose stresses them out.

**[03:20]** That's actually a lot more athletes than I thought.

**[03:25]** The program's still there.

**[03:27]** Just log in, do it.

**[03:29]** Everything's going to be totally fine.

**[03:31]** Next week, Monday, April 6th, we are back to our regular off-season type schedule, three

**[03:36]** on one off, two on one off.

**[03:38]** And that is a preview week of off-season block one.

**[03:41]** So it's basically like a layout of the mandatory work for everybody, whether you're going to

**[03:46]** choose strength bias, conditioning bias, or like a hybrid version of that.

**[03:51]** It is the, the sort of low to moderate volume version of that to get you ready

**[03:56]** to sort of lead you into that and know how you're going to execute on certain things.

**[04:00]** One thing that's challenging about arriving at a program, whether you're

**[04:03]** new to misfit athletics or not is like.

**[04:06]** You have to figure some stuff out week one, a lot of times when there's testing.

**[04:10]** So we're going to try to give you guys a little bit of runway and kind of

**[04:13]** ramp you back up to get you into that spot.

**[04:15]** And then the following week, what next week's podcast is going to be all about.

**[04:20]** Monday, April 13th is off season block one.

**[04:23]** That's where we are going to get into biased programming, strength bias,

**[04:26]** conditioning bias, or we'll do the little workshop on how to template out your hybrid

**[04:32]** version.

**[04:32]** So that's what we got going on for programming right now.

**[04:35]** Again, if you want to ask about Summit Finals Prep, if you want to know whether

**[04:39]** you should be doing it or not, please reach out.

**[04:41]** This episode of the podcast, as well as all episodes of the podcast are brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[04:47]** I have a new affinity for one of their products. I've gotten back into the road biking, going on kind of longer rides and being able to just take one to two scoops of their intra and put it into my like road bike and water bottle and have carbs, electrolytes, creosene, all right there, easy, tastes good.

**[05:07]** good. It's like if like if Coca-Cola didn't own Gatorade. I don't think we're a large

**[05:13]** enough podcast, right? It matters if I slander Coca-Cola. But basically, it's like scientifically

**[05:20]** proven ingredients in terms of the carbs and the electrolytes and the amino acids and stuff

**[05:26]** that they put in there. And again, it tastes good. So it's just nice to be able to have

**[05:29]** something like that. And like, I don't know, I used to use the Gatorade quite a bit. And

**[05:34]** Like you can just taste kind of what's wrong with it.

**[05:37]** You can see it like that color orange is terrifying or that color yellow is

**[05:41]** terrifying.

**[05:42]** And I just logged in to make sure that I knew about the ingredients and stuff.

**[05:46]** And if you subscribe and save it's 36% off right now, and it will be even more

**[05:51]** when you use the code word misfit.

**[05:52]** And then if a one-time purchase is 20% off, if you want to go in and try it.

**[05:56]** And there's a lot of carbs in that job.

**[05:58]** Cause I'm more of a like one scoop kind of person.

**[06:01]** Cause I don't, I don't do a ton of volume.

**[06:03]** and they last me a really long time.

**[06:05]** And if you're the kind of person

**[06:06]** that needs a ton of carbs well,

**[06:07]** then you're one of those people

**[06:08]** that has to spend a bunch of money on food.

**[06:10]** So, gorillamind.com forward slash misfit

**[06:13]** or use the code word misfit at checkout

**[06:15]** and dig into the intro.

**[06:17]** And I have tried both flavors now and I like both.

**[06:18]** I think I like the Kiwi better.

**[06:19]** The cherry's a good change of pace

**[06:22]** and you were spot on with the Tootsie Pop reference.

**[06:25]** It's like exactly that.

**[06:27]** It's like a nostalgic,

**[06:29]** the second you drink it you're like, I know this,

**[06:30]** what is this?

**[06:31]** One of the things I want to shout out that is pretty rare is I have remote coaching openings,

**[06:39]** which I don't make public very often.

**[06:43]** The reason I'm doing it right now is because post quarterfinals, we get a ton of applications.

**[06:51]** And what I will say is we'll talk about why you would or wouldn't want or need remote

**[06:56]** coaching later on in the episode.

**[06:59]** But I will say if you're just like excited in the moment, I'm the best salesman ever.

**[07:03]** If you're just excited in the moment and then don't want to get to work and communicate

**[07:07]** really well and take videos and have these conversations, don't apply for it.

**[07:11]** It's a waste of your money.

**[07:13]** It's a waste of whoever the coach that you get to sign to.

**[07:16]** It's just not worth it, right?

**[07:18]** Get into the telegram group, learn to ask the right questions and work hard in the program.

**[07:23]** Then if you feel like you end up really buying in, I would say apply later.

**[07:27]** If you are really serious about it and want to kind of level up, take your time on the

**[07:31]** application.

**[07:32]** A lot of people go in there and ask really odd questions about macros.

**[07:37]** It's like, I'm not exactly sure what's going on right now.

**[07:40]** Apply for remote coaching.

**[07:42]** Those openings will probably, if I had to guess, be gone at some point in May, roughly.

**[07:48]** That is in the link in bio on our Instagram and just on our website, missvetathletics.com.

**[07:51]** All right.

**[07:52]** Last but definitely not least are the quarterfinals shoutouts.

**[07:56]** I have to say something, I'm gonna let Paige run with it in a minute here, but the community

**[08:02]** right now reminds me of early days Misfit Athletics, and I love it.

**[08:09]** This version, the internet right now, the way that it's constructed, Instagram and the

**[08:15]** attention economy and its YouTube shorts and all this stuff does not work for my brain.

**[08:20]** I am a boomer in that right.

**[08:22]** I can't stand it.

**[08:24]** Like if I stopped doing what I do professionally, you probably would not see me anywhere.

**[08:31]** I would see what it's like out there as like a human in the world.

**[08:36]** But that like message board vibe 2010, like that is my speed because I feel a connection

**[08:46]** with people.

**[08:47]** You can read it when you want to read it.

**[08:49]** You don't have to be just so ready every second to do that.

**[08:52]** And the way that you guys are communicating with one another, giving each other tips,

**[08:57]** building each other up, like a little bit of that like locker room, like jabbing each

**[09:01]** other once you know that the person can handle it.

**[09:03]** Like I just, I love that.

**[09:06]** And we will continue to foster that community and just really exciting.

**[09:11]** But my specific shout out is to the Misfit Masters crew.

**[09:15]** We have eight to 10 athletes right now that are following a semi finals prep.

**[09:21]** They started a few weeks ago.

**[09:23]** They had to jump off of semi-finals prep

**[09:25]** during a higher volume period, do quarter-finals.

**[09:28]** They got to jump back on either Thursday or Friday.

**[09:31]** They got hell week next week.

**[09:32]** They're just getting after it

**[09:33]** and they crushed quarter-finals.

**[09:37]** So fun.

**[09:38]** Justin, Kelly, Kenzie, Adrian, Ashley, Missy, Tony, Katie.

**[09:41]** I'm just very grateful that the people

**[09:46]** that we are trying to go above and beyond for

**[09:50]** pouring into are doing the 50-50 agreement thing, putting in the work.

**[09:55]** They're communicating.

**[09:56]** It's just really awesome to see.
