---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394"
published: 2026-03-31
episode_number: "394"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:59"
chunk_end: "19:54"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394 - Chunk 2

Episode: [Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:59]** There's three or four people in there that are top 10 in the world and they're in their

**[10:03]** age group.

**[10:04]** We've got some people that, whether they go or not, are going to qualify for the in-person

**[10:08]** in Del Mar.

**[10:09]** Just really exciting.

**[10:11]** And I'm just pumped for the rest of the season, that's for sure.

**[10:14]** Shout out to Adrian and Kyle for bringing Katie into their little environment for quarterfinals weekend this weekend.

**[10:22]** She's like, I can't really explain it, but having them around was so helpful.

**[10:26]** And I'm like, you don't need to explain it.

**[10:28]** Like, you're around like-minded individuals who want to see you do just as well as they are doing.

**[10:33]** And like, that's all you need to feed off of each other.

**[10:36]** And, you know, that's not just CrossFit community, but seeing it in like within the Misfit community is really awesome.

**[10:44]** So shout out to those guys for making her feel at home.

**[10:47]** Because she's not, I don't think she's at an affiliate, so she had to go to one.

**[10:53]** But yeah, I work with Katie, Masters 55 to 59, and Tony, who is in the 35 to 39 division on the men's side.

**[11:03]** And just communicating with those guys all weekend long, again, as remote athletes.

**[11:07]** I'm not only excited for them to continue in the semifinals route, but all of my athletes,

**[11:15]** I work with seven total and just the communication that they have been willing to put forward

**[11:21]** throughout the weekend and very responsive, managing their stress, all the highs and lows

**[11:28]** that come with semifinals, it was just a lot of fun.

**[11:31]** And as someone who's managing my own stress, still being able to balance that and have

**[11:36]** them get upset, but also stay in it is inspiring to me. It's like, all right, well, if you guys

**[11:44]** are going to go stay in it, so am I, so I'm going to lock back in. So shout out to, I'm

**[11:49]** going to say all my remote athletes. And that's just the camaraderie that I've really wanted to

**[11:55]** foster with mine and just give them the attention that they deserve. Absolutely. All right.

**[12:00]** Quarterfinals recap. So the first thing that comes to mind here with quarterfinals when we're

**[12:05]** we're speaking from a macro perspective,

**[12:07]** are the different sort of subsections

**[12:11]** of people who are doing it.

**[12:13]** And if we start at the top,

**[12:14]** I'm looking at the leaderboard right now,

**[12:16]** I see five minutes, six minutes, four minutes, nine minutes.

**[12:20]** The word broad, let's do a, I won't, no hyperbole.

**[12:24]** Here comes the rant.

**[12:25]** What is the word broad?

**[12:26]** Definition, what is broad?

**[12:28]** Covering a large number and wide scope of subjects or areas.

**[12:33]** or areas, broad times and modal domains.

**[12:37]** And again, we told you guys,

**[12:39]** the Open's medium workouts and quarterfinals

**[12:41]** are short workouts.

**[12:43]** What's so frustrating here,

**[12:45]** it's the totality of all the things.

**[12:47]** If it was just this programming

**[12:49]** and you had to put your video in

**[12:51]** to get the thumbs up, thumbs down,

**[12:54]** that would be a little bit more helpful.

**[12:55]** If it was just, well,

**[12:58]** I'm not even gonna be able to play devil's advocate here.

**[13:01]** But if, let's say it was just these workouts

**[13:04]** and the fact that there was no,

**[13:07]** basically there's no way to police it.

**[13:09]** It's integrity of the affiliate owner, the judge, et cetera.

**[13:12]** And trust me, I know of specific examples

**[13:15]** where that is a absolute crock of shit.

**[13:17]** Shame on you, all, anyone who's just,

**[13:20]** I think there are people who are secretly shitty

**[13:24]** that go, well, everyone else is gonna do it.

**[13:27]** So I might as well.

**[13:28]** And it's like, no, you are everyone else.

**[13:30]** You are that person.

**[13:31]** You're trying to find a way to justify this.

**[13:35]** If it was just those things,

**[13:37]** and then there was a very clear way to advance

**[13:41]** to semi-finals, to the in-person semi-finals,

**[13:44]** and then make it to the CrossFit Games,

**[13:46]** there'd be probably be less of a rant.

**[13:49]** The magic of this sport and the history of this sport

**[13:53]** is reliant on the fact that, oh my goodness,

**[13:56]** they created this online competition

**[13:58]** that anybody could sign up,

**[14:00]** and you could prove how good you were.

**[14:02]** And that person in your gym that works their ass off

**[14:05]** during open gym can make it to regional,

**[14:08]** semi-final, sanctuos, whatever you wanna call it.

**[14:10]** We're gonna go there and we're gonna watch

**[14:11]** and we're gonna do this thing.

**[14:13]** The less opportunities you give the next wave

**[14:16]** or the people that are trying to climb the ladder

**[14:19]** and squeak into that place,

**[14:21]** the more all of your numbers and all of your revenue

**[14:24]** and all of that stuff is going to drop.

**[14:26]** Like I have worked with so many athletes

**[14:30]** in the last 15 years that have wanted to qualify

**[14:35]** for that like semi-final level.

**[14:39]** Like that's the true peak, right?

**[14:41]** A lot of them squeaked into the games and that's awesome.

**[14:43]** That's a whole different conversation.

**[14:45]** But like that magic and working with those people,

**[14:49]** there are hundreds of athletes across the world

**[14:53]** that would contribute greatly to the sport.

**[14:57]** If they had an opportunity to do so,

**[15:00]** not only are they probably not gonna have an opportunity,

**[15:02]** they have no clue if they have an opportunity.

**[15:05]** None of this makes any sense, right?

**[15:08]** And we talked about it was fun to see the guys

**[15:11]** pull their strategies from a hat,

**[15:13]** but very clearly, if someone else can write your strategy

**[15:18]** down and fold it up on a piece of paper

**[15:20]** and put it into a hat,

**[15:21]** then you're probably not taking things so seriously.

**[15:23]** And like, that's part of the attention economy

**[15:26]** and they probably would have been fine

**[15:27]** and would have qualified for whatever they needed to anyways.

**[15:30]** But it's just to me, another thing.

**[15:33]** Like we're putting a lot of straws

**[15:35]** onto the camels back here.

**[15:37]** And eventually there's going to be the thing that like,

**[15:40]** this whole thing is just gonna come crumbling down.

**[15:43]** And it's so frustrating to see

**[15:45]** because of how good the athletes

**[15:49]** and the programming camps and the coaches

**[15:52]** community-wide have gotten.

**[15:54]** Like we're doing our part over here.

**[15:56]** The coaches, the athletes, the program,

**[15:58]** all of these people, we are doing our part.

**[16:00]** We are putting our contributions in.

**[16:02]** And then it's like, well, I guess we found out

**[16:05]** that people liked quarterfinals, so we'll put it back in,

**[16:08]** but we're gonna write these workouts for quarterfinals,

**[16:11]** which again, we don't need to broad time and modal domains.

**[16:14]** Like I don't, I'm not so sure we're hammering that.

**[16:17]** We went like they're talking about maybe a continuation

**[16:20]** of the open into quarterfinals.

**[16:22]** And they're like, how's this for a continuation?

**[16:24]** Let's do the same movements.

**[16:26]** The last thing that you did, bam,

**[16:28]** is the first thing that you did.

**[16:29]** Fantastic.

**[16:30]** So I just, all of it together is a problem.

**[16:34]** The athletes, what I said to you before we started,

**[16:37]** the athletes, 500 to 2000, et cetera, these were fine.

**[16:42]** Yeah.

**[16:43]** Because you had the outlier workouts,

**[16:45]** and the time domains kind of spread out a little bit.

**[16:50]** But man, it just, it feels like a lack of effort.

**[16:55]** That's really what it feels like.

**[16:57]** I feel like that excitement of like

**[17:00]** those that are on the bubble,

**[17:01]** I feel like that's kind of translated over

**[17:04]** into age groups more than anything.

**[17:06]** I'm like, I have like, you know, like someone like Tony

**[17:10]** who was like, not sure if he's gonna make semi-finals

**[17:14]** and he's sitting comfortably in it and now he's super excited about it.

**[17:17]** I feel like that excitement for it is in the age groups.

**[17:20]** It's just that the age groups don't get as much attention, you know?

**[17:25]** Well, and what's great here is we have multiple athletes that didn't qualify

**[17:31]** for age group that qualified for individual.

**[17:33]** Could you guys have done some math?

**[17:36]** Like that's part of what we're going to get into in the podcast here.

**[17:38]** Like if you're 1500th to 2000th, do not prep for semi-finals.

**[17:46]** Absolutely positively do not.

**[17:48]** It's not going to be appropriate.

**[17:50]** Like the age group one is going to be appropriate prep for that and simulate it.

**[17:55]** That one is going to be appropriate for you.

**[17:57]** So it's just the way that, you know what this year feels like to me?

**[18:01]** It feels like we don't quite know what to do and we're going to try to fix it.

**[18:05]** And we'll get to, we'll, we'll, we'll let you know in a few

**[18:08]** years or something like that.

**[18:10]** You know?

**[18:11]** Man, I just, I don't get it.

**[18:15]** And there are positives to this.

**[18:17]** Like the Misfit community really dug into this.

**[18:22]** Like the chatter was great, strategies, people talking through all of it.

**[18:27]** Like it was a good experience, but so much of the effort was brought on by the people

**[18:32]** executing it.

**[18:33]** Yeah.

**[18:34]** And it just didn't feel like that was the case there.

**[18:37]** like event three, looking at this leaderboard for event three is crazy, right?

**[18:42]** Like Colton tripped once and he got 60 seconds because he was 421 instead of whatever.

**[18:48]** Like 20 seconds away from being top 10.

**[18:52]** Everyone is just jammed together in that because that is not a test worthy of a high level

**[19:00]** athlete.

**[19:01]** It just isn't.

**[19:02]** It absolutely is not.

**[19:03]** So I don't know, man.

**[19:04]** I just, I don't know what they're doing.

**[19:06]** I don't understand what they're doing.

**[19:08]** I don't understand what they're trying to do.

**[19:09]** Maybe they just don't know what to do.

**[19:11]** And this is like the by-product of that,

**[19:14]** but it's incredibly frustrating.

**[19:16]** And they're just, honestly, they're lucky

**[19:17]** that people care about this so much.

**[19:20]** Yeah.

**[19:21]** I mean, and-

**[19:22]** Get like second chance, third chance,

**[19:24]** fourth chance, fifth chance.

**[19:25]** Like, you know?

**[19:26]** Yeah, I'm curious.

**[19:27]** Like, I had to go to another affiliate to do my workouts

**[19:31]** and they were super accommodating,

**[19:33]** But I'm like, these were all very affiliate appropriate workouts.

**[19:39]** You know, like I see that side of it, but I don't know.

**[19:44]** I miss the old one, old quarterfinals.

**[19:47]** Give me a 165 cleaning jerk and make me do it a lot of times.

**[19:52]** Here's the question.

**[19:52]** Do we have a solution?

**[19:54]** What do we want?
