---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394"
published: 2026-03-31
episode_number: "394"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:55"
chunk_end: "29:51"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394 - Chunk 3

Episode: [Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[19:55]** Like, cause that is one thing that I've, it's a huge pet peeve of mine.

**[19:59]** can't stand like on a professional level when people complain and aren't really

**[20:05]** interested in a solution they like to complain they like to be negative I am

**[20:09]** so immersed in the day-to-day of how do we help the athletes get better what

**[20:16]** information can we give them that it can be challenging to take a step back and

**[20:20]** be like what is the actual solution here but I can tell you that a this leads to

**[20:26]** this leads to this is how this needs to happen, right?

**[20:30]** Invitationals and like, okay, quarterfinals is back

**[20:34]** and it's the feeder system to semifinals.

**[20:37]** And it turns out four semifinals are using it

**[20:39]** and they're only using it for half of people.

**[20:42]** They also aren't telling you whether like

**[20:45]** if someone accepts their invitation to legends,

**[20:48]** they allowed to also accept their invitation.

**[20:50]** We don't know any of this stuff.

**[20:52]** There are people who quit their jobs and train twice a day,

**[20:57]** five days a week and once a day, a six day,

**[21:00]** and some people who train every single day to do this,

**[21:03]** and they don't know how, when, where,

**[21:08]** they don't understand any of it, right?

**[21:10]** Like it is their life, it is their livelihood,

**[21:13]** and then they're like, well, I'm not top 20 in the world,

**[21:17]** or top 40 in the world,

**[21:19]** So that means that I am now not participating

**[21:22]** beyond quarterfinals where you didn't give us

**[21:28]** broad time and modal domains to go in and execute.

**[21:31]** Yeah, I don't understand,

**[21:33]** why did we have to change from

**[21:37]** like the 2023, 2024, or 2022 system of like

**[21:43]** the strength of field?

**[21:44]** That's what I was thinking of.

**[21:45]** I couldn't think of the name.

**[21:47]** Like what was wrong with that?

**[21:49]** You know what I mean?

**[21:50]** Like what were the holes in that crossfit?

**[21:52]** Like we need to not do this.

**[21:54]** You would have to assume that there is internal struggle

**[21:58]** at HQ.

**[22:00]** So and so wants it one way.

**[22:02]** The marketing team wants it one way.

**[22:04]** The financial team wants it one way.

**[22:06]** And Dave makes a sweeping change.

**[22:09]** And then it's like, well, this actually,

**[22:11]** you weren't paying attention to this side of it.

**[22:13]** So this needs to be here.

**[22:14]** He's very much,

**[22:15]** My job is to find the fittest person on earth, and that's fine, but maybe stick to what it

**[22:21]** takes to find that person, to find that and let someone else completely take over kind

**[22:28]** of the other stuff.

**[22:29]** The logistics of it?

**[22:30]** Because it just, the logistics of it, how it's laid out, I don't know.

**[22:34]** I just, it should be clear, and then the answer to your questions is an annoying one and a

**[22:39]** funny one and tongue in cheek, but like they can't keep the same thing.

**[22:44]** It's very clear.

**[22:45]** Yeah, right.

**[22:46]** That they just can't do that.

**[22:47]** They won't do that.

**[22:48]** But it worked.

**[22:49]** And you would think they would try to make it better.

**[22:51]** Yeah.

**[22:52]** Not worse.

**[22:53]** I don't know.

**[22:54]** I think I liked it because it was like, obviously I could be biased, but it's like you gave

**[23:00]** people like some people are going to look at this and go, oh my God, the top three are

**[23:04]** going to qualify.

**[23:05]** I'm not going to that semi-final, but then it's like they're only taking seven from online.

**[23:12]** I think so.

**[23:13]** Yeah.

**[23:14]** so limited that it's like, where do you put all your marbles in?

**[23:19]** That's what I'm struggling with.

**[23:20]** I'm like, I don't know.

**[23:21]** Do I want to go in person?

**[23:22]** Do I want to just prep for online?

**[23:23]** And like, I just, I can't, I can't wrap my mind around this.

**[23:27]** It's like, you try to think about it in the context of any other sport.

**[23:31]** It's like, yeah, the Lakers are going to decide to play in March because they know the Spurs

**[23:37]** have decided they're going to, they're going to play in May.

**[23:40]** They don't have to play them.

**[23:42]** It's great.

**[23:43]** But I can't, like every golfer goes to the players and the,

**[23:50]** I just, I cannot wrap my mind around like,

**[23:52]** ooh, I wonder if I can guess

**[23:54]** where people aren't gonna show up.

**[23:56]** Right.

**[23:57]** Like, am I gonna go to parties?

**[23:59]** Or I'm ready to do the qualifier

**[24:00]** that got announced like 30 seconds ago.

**[24:03]** Like, yeah, I don't know.

**[24:06]** I don't know.

**[24:07]** You know what though? Thanks, CrossFit.

**[24:08]** We're just gonna keep,

**[24:09]** there's a sports podcast that I listen to

**[24:11]** And they're like, the NFL just dicks us around

**[24:14]** and it's like, they know we're coming back no matter what.

**[24:18]** Right, exactly.

**[24:19]** It's like, I'm not going anywhere.

**[24:21]** This is my thing, this is what I wanna do.

**[24:24]** This is my calling, but also if you guys could fix it,

**[24:30]** that would be sick, that would be awesome.

**[24:32]** All right, so here's the question,

**[24:35]** the bigger macro question when someone

**[24:38]** leaves a competition like this

**[24:40]** where you were asked to level up.

**[24:43]** In event one, you were asked to push pretty damn hard.

**[24:46]** In event two, you had high volume of some real movements

**[24:50]** that got pretty annoying.

**[24:52]** Event three, event four, you know,

**[24:54]** you had to be able to do 30 strict handstand pushups.

**[24:58]** It was another gated workout where you had to slow down

**[25:00]** to then do a large chunk.

**[25:03]** Smells like another thing that I can think of.

**[25:05]** Um, so there was still enough data for you to figure out probably where you need to go.

**[25:15]** Right.

**[25:15]** It's rare that an intermediate level athlete doesn't have an outlier.

**[25:21]** They do exist.

**[25:21]** You know, I, I always type in all the names and for some reason, the search

**[25:25]** by athlete thing, I was breaks, but I do type in the misfit names and I go in and

**[25:29]** there's a couple people who are like 250 ish across all four.

**[25:34]** And it's like salute, keep working.

**[25:37]** Put your head down and keep working.

**[25:40]** But a lot of them where you search,

**[25:41]** it's there right in line with a lot of the scores

**[25:44]** and then there's something there.

**[25:45]** And you need to bias your program moving forward

**[25:50]** if you're not prepping for semi-finals.

**[25:52]** And not only do you need to do that,

**[25:54]** you need to let that bias breathe.

**[25:58]** There has to be space around it

**[26:01]** for it to actually work and take hold, right?

**[26:05]** So why we can't and don't bias specifically

**[26:09]** during competition prep closer to a season

**[26:12]** because we need that fitness level to be as high as possible.

**[26:15]** That's honestly one of the simplest forms of programming.

**[26:19]** It's when an athlete needs to get better at specific things

**[26:24]** and they don't realize how much interference

**[26:26]** they're running on getting better at that thing

**[26:28]** by doing all of the other stuff that they're doing.

**[26:31]** And it is so individualized

**[26:34]** that we try to do the strength bias track,

**[26:37]** conditioning bias track,

**[26:38]** and then there's obviously the remote coaching side of things.

**[26:41]** But I can tell you right now

**[26:43]** that if you're trying to work on your pulling

**[26:45]** or your pushing or your conditioning or your strength

**[26:50]** and those other things that I just talked about,

**[26:52]** get in the way of you doing that,

**[26:54]** it's just gonna be a longer road.

**[26:56]** It's gonna be a much longer road.

**[26:57]** going to be a slower road. It's also, there's a psychological effect to a long slow road.

**[27:04]** You eventually feel like, I'm not going to get better at this thing. I can't get better

**[27:08]** at this thing. You will, it's just going to take a really long time. Whereas if you actually

**[27:12]** do focus on the thing, you get better because you're getting better. If you see it, you

**[27:21]** see that progress and you buy into it and you put more intensity and effort into those

**[27:25]** So it's really important that that you understand that concept and you push back on

**[27:33]** The things that even we tell you to do that are gonna get in the way of doing that

**[27:37]** so here's an example if you are doing the

**[27:42]** conditioning bias program and

**[27:45]** two conditioning pieces every single day and a lift and a skill makes it so that you're never

**[27:52]** are really getting after it and your conditioning pieces, then even if you're not an open athlete,

**[27:58]** you need to switch over to those open athlete instructions, right?

**[28:03]** Choose a lift, choose a conditioning piece, one to three skills a week, and just go get

**[28:07]** after it, right?

**[28:08]** So like, we'll talk through all of this next week.

**[28:11]** We will talk through this probably every day for the next couple of months in Telegram.

**[28:16]** But like, I cannot stress this enough.

**[28:18]** If what you're doing outside of your bias is affecting your bias on a regular basis,

**[28:24]** then it's just going to be slow going.

**[28:26]** A lot of people are going to have to back off on their volume and got a lot of type

**[28:30]** A people trying to do competitive CrossFit and it's hard.

**[28:35]** Yeah.

**[28:36]** I think people forget that one lift, one conditioning piece, and then a skill or an accessory is

**[28:46]** There's actually a lot of work in a day.

**[28:49]** It's plenty.

**[28:50]** If it's done right.

**[28:52]** If you go and you get after it, that is plenty.

**[28:55]** I think that people do miss that a lot of times because it's like we offer this stuff,

**[29:02]** but there's so much intention of what we put behind everything that if that intention is

**[29:06]** missed, yeah, it's easy to add more volume.

**[29:09]** If you're a volume monster though and you take that same effort over to the lower volume,

**[29:16]** It won't work that well.

**[29:18]** You have to know, and I'm sort of teeing up how you could get better at workout one, but

**[29:24]** you really have to change the way you're executing to improve.

**[29:27]** Yeah.

**[29:28]** Yeah.

**[29:29]** All right.

**[29:30]** Let's talk about outliers.

**[29:31]** So this is what we do with athletes.

**[29:35]** Let's say I get a remote coaching athlete and we're going to look at their open scores,

**[29:41]** their quarterfinals scores, any qualifiers that they did, any competitions that they

**[29:44]** did.

**[29:45]** We want to see the things where the bottleneck is and what we feel like was the problem there.
