---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394"
published: 2026-03-31
episode_number: "394"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:51"
chunk_end: "39:50"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394 - Chunk 4

Episode: [Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:51]** And there's honestly a lot of different things, different reasons why someone wouldn't do

**[29:56]** well in a specific workout.

**[29:58]** So we'll do some examples of that basically with the quarterfinals workout.

**[30:02]** So workout one, very clearly you have to have that high level of GPP and you need to be

**[30:11]** able to push that shorter time domain.

**[30:14]** But what we just talked about with that level of intensity, with that gross like, I'm not

**[30:23]** going to recover for 40 minutes type execution.

**[30:26]** If you don't do that, you don't know how to do that.

**[30:29]** You don't know what it feels like.

**[30:31]** You don't know what it feels like to be a little bit too far behind the line.

**[30:34]** You don't know what it feels like to be over the line.

**[30:36]** And that's a problem, right?

**[30:37]** Like, that's what this workout was designed to do.

**[30:39]** You were supposed to pace it so that they looked similar with that one minute rest in

**[30:45]** between and how many people fell off a cliff either, oh no, I can't do that burpee speed

**[30:50]** again or I eked out.

**[30:53]** I just barely eked out that burpee speed again and then the overhead squats were a real problem.

**[30:58]** And I also saw like you guys are, and I only do this because you guys are so much better

**[31:02]** than me and I'm jealous, but you fucking Narps, my God, those shuttle runs on the back half

**[31:08]** were hilarious.

**[31:09]** It's so bad.

**[31:10]** Oh my goodness.

**[31:11]** They're so bad.

**[31:13]** Incredible.

**[31:14]** What is happening?

**[31:17]** I feel like half the gyms in America now need to get a concrete guy to come back in and smooth

**[31:23]** everything out.

**[31:24]** You guys stomp holes in the floor.

**[31:25]** My goodness.

**[31:26]** Stomp holes.

**[31:27]** That was amazing.

**[31:28]** I don't know if you watched the video of the guy who did it live and he just starts running

**[31:32]** in a circle because he can't stop and start anymore.

**[31:36]** He literally did laps for his shuttle.

**[31:38]** It's so funny to watch.

**[31:39]** That's incredible.

**[31:40]** Yeah.

**[31:41]** Yeah.

**[31:42]** Honestly, the only affiliate workout, unless it was a real special day with who was in

**[31:46]** class that I would ever win, was death by shuttles.

**[31:49]** Because it's like, I'm quicker and smarter.

**[31:52]** I'm not fitter.

**[31:53]** I'm not fitter.

**[31:54]** But you have one shuttle and the person's running like 18 miles an hour in the middle

**[31:59]** of their shuttle.

**[32:00]** And it's like, all right, come on now.

**[32:03]** And this brings us back to...

**[32:05]** We have this ebb and flow in the CrossFit community of like go way too hard at the beginning

**[32:12]** of a workout and just burn it down and eventually you'll get so fit that you can execute on

**[32:18]** that.

**[32:19]** And then we have the like, we had the, the Rich Froning, Ben Smith era where it's like,

**[32:25]** man, they pay so well and they move so incredibly well.

**[32:29]** And it's like, other people think that they're at that level and at that speed and doing

**[32:34]** that thing.

**[32:35]** actually just make something very hard look effortless.

**[32:38]** And they really kind of control their breathing and whatnot.

**[32:40]** But we have these ebbs and flows of like,

**[32:44]** we're gonna go really hard and do less volume.

**[32:46]** And then now we're gonna do more volume.

**[32:48]** And there's gonna be like just a ton of zone two work.

**[32:51]** And I wrote an article back in the day,

**[32:53]** if you just Google, Pukey is dead,

**[32:55]** where it was like, we need to get back to this place.

**[32:59]** Because you end up, when you coach these competitions,

**[33:03]** You end up like, like the introverts end up like collecting like dust in a corner and

**[33:08]** you become friends with the athletes.

**[33:10]** And it's not shocking that a lot of the more quiet spoken people aren't the like run and

**[33:15]** like put your head through a wall kind of people.

**[33:19]** And you could see the workouts where they would drop 10 plus spots at the games because

**[33:24]** they couldn't identify those ones.

**[33:27]** They couldn't see those for what they were like clearly, no one's going to go on broken

**[33:31]** on this workout with these muscle ups or whatever.

**[33:34]** And it's like, there's gonna be a couple of people,

**[33:36]** there's gonna be, half the field's gonna try

**[33:38]** and four people are gonna get it right.

**[33:40]** Something like that.

**[33:41]** Yep.

**[33:42]** So you just, you have to know when to go there

**[33:46]** and what it feels like.

**[33:48]** And if you don't do that, if you don't learn how to do that,

**[33:52]** you're gonna mistake pretty good effort

**[33:56]** for like your top effort.

**[33:58]** And it's just never gonna cut it.

**[33:59]** That's a whole minute in that workout.

**[34:02]** That's a whole minute added to that workout

**[34:04]** if you don't know how to train that way.

**[34:06]** Spoiler, you're gonna get way fitter

**[34:08]** training that way as well.

**[34:09]** Like you go harder, you better adaptation

**[34:13]** if you do the right amount of volume

**[34:14]** in terms of where your recovery's at.

**[34:17]** Like you're gonna end up doing better.

**[34:19]** But I think people get a little bit too cute with stuff

**[34:22]** and that can get in their way.

**[34:23]** Intensity.

**[34:24]** Yeah.

**[34:25]** Yep.

**[34:26]** That was a good one.

**[34:27]** That was a fun one to talk to Wyatt about.

**[34:30]** Wyatt, also shout out to Wyatt

**[34:33]** for making online semi-finals.

**[34:34]** He's finished like 1200, I know.

**[34:37]** But he's like-

**[34:38]** Wyatt, you haven't asked me for your gift card, bro.

**[34:40]** Hey, dude, I told him about it.

**[34:42]** It's the double gift card too.

**[34:44]** I know, you really did win.

**[34:46]** He's like, I had no business doing this,

**[34:48]** but my first half of that workout was a 243.

**[34:52]** And then he finished like a 720.

**[34:55]** But again, that was him knowing that like,

**[34:58]** I'm gonna go really hard.

**[35:00]** And obviously like a test isn't the time to like,

**[35:03]** fuck around and find out, but he found out.

**[35:07]** And like he went really hard.

**[35:08]** He, you know, he felt the intensity of that workout

**[35:11]** probably the most out of all four of them

**[35:13]** because he did that.

**[35:15]** Right, yeah.

**[35:16]** And that's where I want that athlete versus the opposite

**[35:20]** to then be like, I'm gonna tell you

**[35:24]** how to do this workout in competition.

**[35:26]** Okay, I'm gonna tell you how to execute on this.

**[35:29]** And you might not like it.

**[35:31]** You hope you can get them to a spot where they believe in it.

**[35:34]** That part of it's really important.

**[35:35]** But like, I would much rather have that athlete

**[35:38]** than the one who shies away from certain things.

**[35:41]** Yeah, for sure.

**[35:42]** Dude, there is this subsection of seasoned athletes

**[35:47]** athletes that end up in the last few years of their career significantly lower on the

**[35:55]** leaderboard or not on the leaderboard at all because they don't want to be in pain again.

**[36:02]** And those athletes are really hard to work with for me.

**[36:07]** It's just so challenging for me to be like, I don't even like why like this, this is the

**[36:12]** piece that belongs in this spot here and you're not going to do the workout the way that it's

**[36:17]** written and it almost just wanted to like delete it and be like, okay, well go sit outside in the

**[36:22]** sun and have a lollipop. Like I don't know. I don't know what to do here. Those, those athletes

**[36:28]** that can be really challenging to work with because then when you get to the competition

**[36:33]** and there is the nasty one, they are doing the thing where they're like, well, you know,

**[36:39]** I don't really like workouts like this.

**[36:41]** I don't think I can put myself in that spot.

**[36:42]** And it's like, I don't love it.

**[36:44]** Workout two.

**[36:45]** This one is a big plug for remote coaching

**[36:48]** if you didn't do well in it.

**[36:50]** It's very specific.

**[36:51]** Workout two and workout four are both really big plugs

**[36:55]** for remote coaching.

**[36:56]** If you struggled with just the idea of

**[36:59]** I'm not great at pressing with the strict handstand pushups

**[37:02]** or my grip isn't fantastic slash struggle

**[37:07]** with the bar muscle ups, to truly take someone through an entire off season where you are

**[37:15]** base building and then personalizing and then getting into sports specific is probably the

**[37:20]** most important element of like year one or year two of a remote coaching relationship.

**[37:27]** And I wish that there was enough time in the day and it was possible, but you guys would

**[37:33]** be talking about like, there'd be like 14 groups per phase on telegram.

**[37:39]** Like, are you following program J7, you know, B19?

**[37:44]** And you'd have like one remote, you'd have like one online training partner

**[37:48]** and it would be an absolute mess.

**[37:50]** So it's one of those things where you need to do the kind of slower boring stuff.

**[37:56]** You got to do your dead hangs and your handstand holds.

**[37:59]** You've got to do your hand over hand sled pulls and your, you know, ring rows and barbell

**[38:06]** rows, and you got to do your, you know, tempo descent, strict, you know, chest to bar pull.

**[38:12]** It's just those things and building them to specifically work for a specific athlete can

**[38:18]** be challenging.

**[38:19]** It is absolutely possible to do it on your own, but it's a lot harder.

**[38:23]** It's a lot harder to go in and execute on something like that.

**[38:27]** especially if you're that type of athlete

**[38:29]** that likes to be told what to do.

**[38:31]** Like, you know, like we talked about having this,

**[38:33]** like, you know, having a little less structured

**[38:35]** through this time because we're giving you guys

**[38:37]** the chance to cherry pick.

**[38:38]** But like, I still like, I know my athletes

**[38:41]** are gonna be like, what should I do?

**[38:44]** Like, they just, they like that structure.

**[38:46]** So yeah, definitely a plug for,

**[38:49]** if you like structure being told what to do, hit us up.

**[38:52]** The other piece here is athlete IQ

**[38:54]** on this workout specifically.

**[38:56]** And I don't mean in this workout.

**[38:58]** I mean all year long,

**[39:02]** so that when you get to this workout,

**[39:04]** you're not one of the 10,000 people that did even rounds

**[39:07]** across this entire workout.

**[39:09]** It doesn't make sense.

**[39:10]** The athletes that I know that did well,

**[39:13]** did have a kind of a nuanced approach,

**[39:16]** was descending sets of muscle ups, but then two sets.

**[39:20]** A lot of them did two sets, kind of broke up

**[39:22]** the squat cleans a little bit more.

**[39:25]** I thought that was, that was an interesting thing to do.

**[39:28]** But again, just, just the idea that you are disciplined enough and you move

**[39:33]** well enough and that your energy systems are so long and smooth and aerobic that

**[39:39]** you're just going to go four and eight back and forth without any larger breaks.

**[39:44]** Like if someone said to me, I'm going to do five and 10 for my first round and
