---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394"
published: 2026-03-31
episode_number: "394"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:50"
chunk_end: "49:50"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|Quarterfinals Recap: Programming, results, rants, what's next, and urine surveillance? - E.394]]

## Transcript

**[39:50]** three and six for my last round, and then just four and eight in the middle.

**[39:54]** That would make way more sense to me.

**[39:56]** Just because a lot of people were like, well, I did four eight the whole time, but I did

**[40:00]** two and two for like half of it with the muscle ups.

**[40:05]** That's not what that is.

**[40:07]** The same, right?

**[40:08]** You're kind of pigeonholing yourself a little bit.

**[40:10]** So doing more of that athlete IQ work, because you need to believe in a strategy that works

**[40:17]** for you personally, you don't want to go online and find a strategy that looks right because

**[40:23]** the person that wrote it or suggested it did it well on their own because you're not them.

**[40:29]** Right.

**[40:29]** Right.

**[40:30]** Yep.

**[40:30]** And I didn't expect people to perfect, like you would, I would say you probably need to do this

**[40:36]** three times.

**[40:37]** Yeah.

**[40:38]** To like really nail it. Like most people were like a lot of, like a lot of people started a

**[40:43]** little bit too high on the bar muscle ups, you know, open with 10 or nine or whatever.

**[40:48]** And just based on their time, you could tell like they felt they had to have fallen apart

**[40:52]** at the end or just not understood that standing around is not going to help you in a workout

**[40:58]** like this. So you got to know yourself well enough as an athlete for who have the ability

**[41:07]** to go in. And part of it is recognizing workouts that you do well on and workouts that you

**[41:12]** don't do well on, right? It's not just like, what is my strategy here? Okay, this is attacking

**[41:19]** this strength of mind or weakness of mind and how did I do on that things.

**[41:25]** Athlete IQ throughout the season, thinking about what the workout is, what the volume

**[41:31]** is, how long it's going to take, what your strategy should be, try this one and then

**[41:36]** try that one and then try the other one.

**[41:39]** That's going to be the most helpful for you to figure out what to do in workouts that

**[41:43]** need a truly personalized set of plans to execute on.

**[41:49]** Yeah.

**[41:50]** I mean, that workout specifically too, I feel like I heard a lot of people say, maybe not

**[41:57]** a lot of people, but the bar muscle ups weren't bad in that workout.

**[42:01]** And I think that that was people's original thought was that those were going to be much

**[42:05]** harder, but it was the dumbbells.

**[42:08]** So I also think that that one specifically threw me for a loop as far as how is it going

**[42:15]** to feel, how should I approach this.

**[42:17]** So that one stumped me too.

**[42:19]** Did you do even rounds the whole time?

**[42:21]** Almost.

**[42:22]** I wish I started bigger.

**[42:25]** Yeah, I did because I thought that the grip was going to be the issue, but it wasn't.

**[42:30]** It was more gas, which we also did.

**[42:33]** We did say that early on, but I don't trust my grip enough.

**[42:37]** I haven't trained my grip enough, I guess, I would say to think that I would be still

**[42:42]** conditioned to do hang on for bigger sets.

**[42:44]** But had I gone and redone it, I would definitely would try that kind of approach.

**[42:49]** Yeah.

**[42:50]** Workout three, my top line note says meh.

**[42:53]** It just wasn't a quarter finals workout, was it?

**[42:56]** Wasn't?

**[42:57]** No.

**[42:58]** I don't even know if it was really a workout.

**[43:00]** Yeah.

**[43:01]** One of the reasons why I pause is because most of my career, most of the people that

**[43:06]** work with are semi-finals and CrossFit Games athletes. For those people, this was not a good

**[43:12]** test. But I work with the whole community and I work with some other people who struggle a little

**[43:17]** bit with this. So it's like, okay, this is kind of like an outlier, like, if you don't like this

**[43:23]** movement specifically sort of workout. And at that intermediate level, it was definitely deadlift

**[43:30]** efficiency. And I don't think she would mind me bringing this up, but we talked about the

**[43:38]** true kind of powerlifting, leverage-based deadlift versus the like squatty Olympic-style deadlift.

**[43:45]** And one thing that I found really interesting is, so when someone does the squatty style,

**[43:51]** eventually in the workout, typically, people do this a lot, like shorter people do this a lot on

**[43:55]** on a one rep max, they pass their knee and then they rebend their knee and try to extend

**[44:01]** their knee to stand up basically, which is so hard.

**[44:05]** Yeah.

**[44:06]** Like so incredibly hard.

**[44:07]** What most people are doing is they are at almost full knee extension when the bar is

**[44:13]** at their knee and then they just push the hip through.

**[44:16]** Done.

**[44:17]** Like there isn't anything else really happening.

**[44:20]** We have, you know, two systems of levers at play.

**[44:23]** You're not really doing anything at that point

**[44:26]** if you're doing it right.

**[44:27]** But what I saw with Kelly that was interesting

**[44:29]** was basically she's strong enough

**[44:31]** that it never breaks down to that point,

**[44:34]** but she has a full knee extension

**[44:37]** to stand up after the bar is like at her thigh basically.

**[44:44]** And she's really strong and really good with barbells.

**[44:48]** Don't matter.

**[44:49]** That mechanical disadvantage.

**[44:51]** So that was like a hybrid version that I hadn't seen before

**[44:55]** where you're really not understanding that you need to get,

**[44:58]** when you're at the knee, it's done.

**[45:00]** Hips through, movement's over.

**[45:02]** There is no standing up at that point.

**[45:05]** Yeah.

**[45:06]** So it almost felt like an easier way to explain,

**[45:08]** at least in an audio format, like how that could happen,

**[45:14]** how you could get yourself into that spot.

**[45:16]** And again, it's that person who is halfway up their thigh

**[45:20]** and their knees are still bent,

**[45:22]** and they have to stand the bar up.

**[45:24]** So, deadlift efficiency was intermediate,

**[45:27]** and then of course, like the novice athlete,

**[45:31]** like 72% of novice athletes despise double unders.

**[45:36]** The Narps.

**[45:37]** The Narps do not love to see a double under coming.

**[45:43]** It's a bit of an issue there.

**[45:45]** But yeah, I just, this one's work on your double unders,

**[45:48]** and understanding deadlifts can make you

**[45:52]** like 40% better at them.

**[45:54]** If you don't get it and you're moving yourself

**[45:56]** through that pattern, it's gonna fall apart

**[45:58]** regardless of how strong and fit you are.

**[46:01]** Yeah, you wanted me to send,

**[46:05]** I mean, we talked about sending like a good one

**[46:08]** and a bad one and I was like,

**[46:10]** I actually don't know how to do this.

**[46:14]** Paige couldn't do the bad one.

**[46:14]** Squatty, yeah.

**[46:16]** Yeah, yep.

**[46:17]** I had a hard time visualizing it.

**[46:18]** It's because it is very,

**[46:20]** it's when you understand how to deadlift,

**[46:22]** it's like extremely counterintuitive.

**[46:24]** Yeah, right.

**[46:25]** It's like, well, I got my knees out of the way

**[46:28]** and could just push my hips through.

**[46:29]** You want me to rebend them and then stand up?

**[46:31]** Like, why would I do that?

**[46:33]** And it's like, well, that's what you do in a clean.

**[46:36]** Right, exactly.

**[46:37]** Yeah, yeah.

**[46:38]** All right, workout number four, we already addressed this.

**[46:41]** Just another plug for remote coaching.

**[46:44]** I will say this one is very black and white for me on the men's side.

**[46:49]** I think that your fingers should be pointing out.

**[46:54]** I think you should be close as hell to the wall.

**[46:57]** And I think your head should move up and down, not to a tripod position.

**[47:02]** I apologize to any gymnasts that are listening to this podcast, as Glassman would say.

**[47:07]** Don't care about the tripod position.

**[47:09]** Couldn't give a fuck.

**[47:11]** Just watch the people that are good at them.

**[47:13]** They don't do that.

**[47:14]** go back behind their hands and then rock their head through.

**[47:18]** Because it eventually turns into the human PEZ dispenser.

**[47:22]** Like the head goes back because you have to try to recruit more of the anterior side and

**[47:28]** it's a mess.

**[47:29]** It's a ton of time under tension.

**[47:31]** When you get good at them, I call them elbow bends.

**[47:34]** That's what they feel like.

**[47:35]** You don't really feel like you're doing a whole lot because the range of motion, like

**[47:38]** if you were to take a barbell and put it all the way up here, it's like that's all I'm

**[47:43]** doing in this position. So if you get a little bit of rebound from going full neck trampoline

**[47:50]** on them and not doing the negative that way, I know that that can be unfair. There's a

**[47:56]** gray area with on the women's side. If you haven't developed the ability to do that,

**[48:03]** it's insane for me to tell you to do that if you can't, but you need to develop it.

**[48:08]** It needs to be the end goal that we're looking for here.

**[48:13]** I've had multiple athletes that I work with that were decent at strict handstand pushups,

**[48:20]** and we worked on that style for a month, and then they're sending me a set of 30.

**[48:25]** So again, CrossFit is riddled, the sport of CrossFit is riddled with movements that need

**[48:33]** to be adapted from the gymnastics space to competitive crossfit space.

**[48:38]** If you want to watch someone who's really good at them and they're just up and down,

**[48:45]** most of them aren't in that fingers pointed towards the wall position because that makes

**[48:50]** it so that you typically have to be a little bit further off the wall.

**[48:54]** That is going to make it so that you're pressing at that angle, which is more challenging than

**[48:58]** being able to kind of press yourself straight up and down.

**[49:02]** That is something that can be fixed over a longer period of time.

**[49:08]** That might be the most frustrating one.

**[49:10]** I feel like you need the most patience for...

**[49:14]** You really do.

**[49:15]** The positions, the like rib cage being stacked, like there's just a lot that goes into it.

**[49:22]** If you've got an ego, you don't stand a chance getting better at something like that.

**[49:29]** That's one thing...

**[49:30]** That's actually a good way to put it.

**[49:31]** Well, I have this list of...

**[49:35]** So, there's a course that I'm taking,

**[49:38]** and they want me to do a hundred pieces of content in a hundred days.

**[49:42]** Which sounds like my own personal hell.

**[49:46]** Talking to my phone a hundred days in a row, I might perish.
