---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389"
published: 2026-02-26
episode_number: "389"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:58"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Hey Misfits, it's Drew. If you are listening to this or watching it, this is the post-production

**[00:05]** version of the live podcast that we did for 26.1. I will leave the live version up on our

**[00:12]** YouTube channel if you want to try to sync it up with the open announcement so you can listen to

**[00:17]** Paige and I kind of talk through our thoughts while we're watching that workout. I wanted to

**[00:21]** record this portion of it here because it kind of bounces around a little bit. I took large chunks

**[00:28]** of dead air and us kind of watching and talking about things where you would

**[00:31]** need the visual element there.

**[00:33]** Um, so it does bounce around a little bit, just kind of a warning.

**[00:36]** Um, but there are some really good tidbits in there.

**[00:38]** If you're looking for sort of more drawn out strategy, written out strategy,

**[00:43]** warmups, that stuff's going to be in telegram.

**[00:46]** It's going to be in your programs.

**[00:48]** And then eventually it will be on social media.

**[00:50]** So I hope you guys enjoy this.

**[00:51]** If you got any feedback for next week, feel free to reach out to me.

**[00:54]** But yeah, without further ado, 26.1 podcast episode.

**[01:16]** Good morning, misfits.

**[01:17]** You were tuning into a ultra mega special edition misfit podcast.

**[01:22]** It is CrossFit Christmas.

**[01:24]** 26.1 is here, the beginning of the 2026 CrossFit Games season.

**[01:30]** On this episode of the podcast, we are live right now, technically.

**[01:34]** So if you're with us, welcome.

**[01:35]** And if you're listening after the fact, hopefully you have waited until the post-production version,

**[01:40]** where if there's dead air, I'm going to get rid of it and repost it.

**[01:43]** So don't you worry about me talking about all of the live stuff, because we will make sure that we get into the nitty-gritty of what's happening with the athletes.

**[01:51]** with the athletes, our breakdown of that, the warmups,

**[01:55]** strategy, movement tips, answering people's questions,

**[01:58]** all that good stuff.

**[01:58]** So we will go in and edit that stuff afterwards.

**[02:03]** Before we get started with all of that good stuff,

**[02:06]** this episode of the podcast is brought to you

**[02:08]** by Gorilla Mind.

**[02:09]** You can head to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit

**[02:12]** or just use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[02:14]** We got big news.

**[02:15]** There is a new flavor of the energy drink.

**[02:18]** We have, it's pretty cool, Ken.

**[02:20]** Rainbow.

**[02:21]** Oh, that's pretty.

**[02:22]** Apparently it's sherbet, but in America we say sherbert and I don't know why there's

**[02:26]** no R there and I don't know how to actually pronounce it, but it's delicious.

**[02:30]** And it is actually number two on my power rankings right now.

**[02:35]** Slit all the way up.

**[02:36]** Yes.

**[02:37]** If we look up here, that's the white frost.

**[02:40]** That's still number one.

**[02:42]** And we did not partner with them because they make energy drinks.

**[02:44]** We partnered with them because they make the best supplements in the game.

**[02:47]** So grillamind.com forward slash misfit or use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[02:52]** Little bit of housekeeping here.

**[02:54]** All of our programs can be found at the link in bio on our Instagram.

**[02:57]** You can get signed up for our affiliate program on a two week free trial.

**[03:01]** You can email me coach at misfit athletics.com.

**[03:03]** I'll give you a two week sample or you can get a free trial on Fitter or Strivee for

**[03:06]** our open athlete quarterfinals athlete, semi-finals athlete, CrossFit games, athlete programming,

**[03:12]** the unsung hero, the GPP program, which is for everybody trying to be healthy, happy,

**[03:18]** strong fit, all of that good stuff.

**[03:20]** Really important here.

**[03:22]** If you want to win some stuff on these as we progress through, you got to make sure

**[03:26]** you go into your competition dashboard on games.crossfit.com and add the hashtag

**[03:31]** rain or shine R a I N O R S H I N E all jammed together there.

**[03:39]** I mean, you will be on the Misfit Leader board for 2026.

**[03:44]** Get some shout outs there, give away some free stuff and make sure that if you are subscribed

**[03:49]** to any of our programs, aside from GPP, that you're keeping an eye out for changes.

**[03:53]** So when these workouts get announced, we make sure that we go in and that everything is

**[03:58]** balanced and we make some changes and there could be some stuff kind of down the line.

**[04:03]** So keep an eye out for that.

**[04:04]** Shout outs of the week.

**[04:06]** These are of a very different variety this week, but we got to give a shout out to McKenna

**[04:11]** Enslen right before the season gets started for the second year in a row.

**[04:16]** She is scheduled for surgery, which is a really tough pill to swallow, but a message for McKenna

**[04:22]** and for everybody else where there is a will, there is a way.

**[04:26]** The only time I lose athletes ever is when they don't want to do the work anymore.

**[04:31]** They don't want to deal with the communication anymore.

**[04:33]** They don't want to feel the pain.

**[04:34]** It's usually the pain.

**[04:35]** It's usually like, I've done this enough.

**[04:37]** I don't want to do this.

**[04:39]** So for all of you, especially McKenna, if you want to keep working, we're going to keep

**[04:44]** working and we're going to find a way.

**[04:46]** So that's anybody that's injured out there.

**[04:48]** Massive shout out to Kyle Moline qualifying for the NorCal Classic.

**[04:54]** Kyle is the community MVP of Misfit.

**[04:59]** Kyle is waiting on Telegram, as far as I can tell, to heart your message, to pump you up,

**[05:08]** to, you know, just, he's an awesome dude and he's worked his butt off.

**[05:11]** And if you go to his games profile, he has that like leaping up in levels every single

**[05:16]** year.

**[05:17]** And it's just so fun to watch when the person is not only a really hard worker, but also

**[05:21]** a very important part of the community.

**[05:23]** So shout out to Kyle and also to Kyle's training partner, Adrian, who was qualified for the

**[05:29]** the, eh, 40 to 44, I believe at NorCal.

**[05:33]** I could be making that up.

**[05:34]** Crazy.

**[05:35]** I love it.

**[05:36]** Please let me know if I'm wrong, but that's just so cool.

**[05:38]** So, Lindsey Hoffman has already qualified,

**[05:41]** so we got a little NorCal party going on.

**[05:44]** So if you want to see us at a semifinal,

**[05:46]** you should definitely be there.

**[05:48]** So I want to challenge coaches and athletes

**[05:51]** as they're watching this announcement

**[05:53]** to put their athlete IQ to the test,

**[05:56]** and then to have the humility when we're all wrong

**[05:58]** about some sort of nuance within a workout,

**[06:00]** because that's fun.

**[06:01]** It's not disparaging that you don't know exactly

**[06:03]** what's gonna happen in every single workout,

**[06:05]** because these combinations are so interchanged

**[06:08]** and not all over the place, but you guys get what I mean.

**[06:11]** So much variance within this.

**[06:13]** So what I wanna challenge you to do

**[06:15]** is to establish a theory about the workout.

**[06:17]** What is the stimulus?

**[06:18]** Is this the kind of thing where we're trying

**[06:20]** to hold the same pace and go on the merry-go-round?

**[06:22]** Is this one where we get to break up a movement,

**[06:24]** because if we don't, the movement will go away?

**[06:26]** Is this one where we have to stop

**[06:30]** because the gas tank is going to be an issue,

**[06:32]** we're gonna slow down

**[06:33]** because the gas tank is gonna be an issue.

**[06:34]** Timing is huge with athlete IQ.

**[06:39]** Paige, let's talk about this.

**[06:40]** Let's identify stimulus.

**[06:42]** Who is this muscle endurance workout for

**[06:44]** and who is this a gas workout for?

**[06:46]** Are you talking in terms of the athletes

**[06:48]** that are going here or?

**[06:50]** No, no, no, no, no.

**[06:51]** I think this is probably a gas stimulus

**[06:54]** because of the athlete IQ with them,

**[06:56]** the way that they're gonna break it up.

**[06:59]** A lot of athletes, the wall ball is actually

**[07:02]** gonna be a little bit more of an upper body thing.

**[07:04]** So this brings the lower half really into play here

**[07:08]** and breaking up your wall balls

**[07:09]** is gonna be incredibly important.

**[07:12]** Yeah, I mean, I'll die on that hill

**[07:16]** of sets of 10s the whole way,

**[07:18]** just about staying consistent, methodical on the wall balls.

**[07:22]** And that number doesn't have to be 10,

**[07:23]** but like it could be something where you're like,

**[07:25]** I know as soon as it hits the ground,

**[07:27]** I can pick this ball back up

**[07:28]** and just stay in that constant rhythm of it.

**[07:32]** Box jump overs are harder than wall balls.

**[07:34]** I think that that matters in this.

**[07:38]** And I don't mean in a one-to-one sense.

**[07:40]** I mean, what's going to happen to you metabolically

**[07:44]** if you try to push in one place or the other

**[07:46]** because we have the fixed cadence movement.

**[07:48]** To an extent, we get to see Jason and Colton do them.

**[07:52]** so probably not fixed cadence, but pretty damn close.

**[07:55]** You're not gonna win the workout there.

**[07:57]** So individual cadence with the ball is gonna be huge.

**[08:01]** Yeah, I mean, I don't know.

**[08:03]** We did that workout, the rowing, the wall balls,

**[08:06]** the box jump overs, and like,

**[08:08]** some athletes can really move on box jump overs

**[08:10]** and others need to, you know,

**[08:13]** also be really methodical there.

**[08:14]** I think, you know, that was a 16 to 18 minute workout

**[08:18]** or almost 20 minute workout.

**[08:20]** and even my remote athlete, Peyton,

**[08:23]** she's cruising on box jump overs.

**[08:25]** And I look at these movements for her,

**[08:27]** and I'm like, these are wheelhouse.

**[08:29]** I look at McKenna, these are wheelhouse.

**[08:30]** So it's gonna be very dependent on,

**[08:34]** how confident do you feel on these movements too?

**[08:37]** You do have to accept the fact that that gas tank is gonna.

**[08:40]** Hey, it's Kelly.

**[08:41]** It's gonna hit.

**[08:42]** Yeah, she's doing the judging here.

**[08:44]** She's doing the judging.

**[08:45]** I saw an Instagram, yeah.

**[08:46]** She's one of the judges for the athletes.

**[08:49]** And then there's just the alchemy of the combination of the two movements.

**[08:54]** So you might like the box jump over.

**[08:59]** Will you sabotage your wall ball capacity with the fact that you like those?

**[09:04]** And we've talked about this recently with two rowers of varying degrees could have vastly

**[09:12]** different paces or they could row at the same pace and one of them could be in a worse spot

**[09:16]** than the other for the other piece.

**[09:19]** and then you sort of end up getting to that point there.

**[09:21]** So how the movements mix together is really fascinating.

**[09:25]** I am looking at this workout

**[09:28]** and I'm looking at these athletes

**[09:30]** and yes, you can do box jump overs faster

**[09:33]** than two seconds a rep,

**[09:34]** but I think we will be looking

**[09:36]** at buzzer beater type situations for the best,

**[09:39]** especially considering we're not going to,

**[09:42]** most of us are not going to average

**[09:45]** that two seconds on the wall balls.

**[09:47]** Yeah.

**[09:48]** Because you're going to have transitions and breaks.

**[09:51]** I'm also curious, like, how are the box stepovers going to feel?

**[09:54]** Are they going to help you kind of bring your heart rate back down to kind of step
