---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389"
published: 2026-02-26
episode_number: "389"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:58"
chunk_end: "19:58"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389 - Chunk 2

Episode: [Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:58]** on the gas pedal on the back half of this workout?

**[10:00]** Like?

**[10:02]** No.

**[10:04]** I don't know.

**[10:05]** Like, I like them in there.

**[10:08]** Sure.

**[10:08]** Yeah.

**[10:09]** That's the thing that makes this awesome is we get to this point in the year

**[10:13]** and we've been pushing the GPP propaganda.

**[10:16]** And all I wanted was a medium duration couplet

**[10:20]** that just slammed people because it proves the point.

**[10:23]** It's not because I'm like a sadist,

**[10:25]** it's because you being able to push in a workout like this

**[10:29]** is a prerequisite for any other aspirations that you have.

**[10:33]** Stand no chance at going anywhere

**[10:36]** until this style of workout can be pushed.

**[10:38]** So like, yeah, just looking at some of the comments here.

**[10:43]** Yeah, I mean, I think this is one of those moments where it's a...

**[10:46]** If I had to guess, the box jump overs are step overs for scaled.

**[10:50]** That's typically how they do that.

**[10:51]** Probably.

**[10:52]** So that could be one thing to have in consideration there.

**[10:56]** You could still do it in that regard.

**[10:58]** But otherwise, there isn't honestly really a huge choice.

**[11:02]** You kind of just got to go for it or potentially do the scaled version.

**[11:06]** So yeah, we got a nasty little work out here, right?

**[11:09]** It's accessible.

**[11:10]** It's just wall balls and box jumps.

**[11:11]** Crazy.

**[11:12]** It's old school, but I don't know like this is a good group of guys to watch as well, right?

**[11:19]** You got the tall the short at the end of the workout, isn't it for these two think so?

**[11:26]** Mother of God

**[11:29]** You love to see it 354 reps. Yep. And again, I people lose the plot with this stuff. It's intentional

**[11:37]** It's not, he's not saying like,

**[11:40]** oh, you aren't good enough to do this workout.

**[11:44]** He's showing the top.

**[11:45]** This is the whole deal, program for the best,

**[11:47]** scale for the rest.

**[11:48]** It's built in with the time cap.

**[11:50]** This is not dumb because you can't finish.

**[11:54]** It is a 12-minute AMRAP for basically everybody.

**[11:57]** Like, let's just remember how fit Colton Mertens is,

**[12:01]** especially in the open.

**[12:03]** So, like, if you start this workout

**[12:05]** and your 20 wall balls and 18 box jump overs

**[12:08]** are on pace with Colton.

**[12:10]** Boy.

**[12:11]** For sure, yeah.

**[12:11]** With any of them.

**[12:13]** This is four of the top 10.

**[12:16]** Right.

**[12:17]** Four of the 10 best people in the entire world

**[12:20]** at this thing, and two of them finished.

**[12:23]** So clearly, intentional.

**[12:26]** And I think there's discussions super often about,

**[12:29]** like, does mental toughness exist?

**[12:31]** Is it something that you need?

**[12:33]** you have to push yourself in workouts, in training,

**[12:38]** to prepare yourself to feel a certain way.

**[12:41]** So it's more semantics when we're arguing over,

**[12:44]** is it mental toughness, is it resilience, is it whatever?

**[12:47]** It's knowing how to toe the line, go over it sometimes,

**[12:53]** and do that and put yourself in that place.

**[12:56]** And we talked about it recently on the podcast

**[12:58]** where there was a video of Jason doing a workout

**[13:01]** workout and it was just a real simple couplet triplet whatever and his wheezing on the burpee

**[13:08]** box jump overs is like, this is the fittest man on earth.

**[13:10]** Are you taking yourself to that place when you know what it feels like, you know how

**[13:15]** to manage it, you know how to deal with it?

**[13:17]** So again, is it mental toughness?

**[13:19]** Is it experience and sort of learning and building on that?

**[13:24]** I don't think that part really matters.

**[13:26]** But wow, that was something, huh?

**[13:30]** So what we can do now, I think that would be interesting potentially is start to ask for questions.

**[13:40]** And I'm going to make my way through with Paige. We'll go through, you know, warm up and all that stuff.

**[13:46]** And we'll kind of take the questions as we go.

**[13:48]** So for the warm up, this is the time of year where we post our warm ups on social media and people lose their minds at the sweat check.

**[13:58]** Here's what we're looking for. We are looking for three, four minute to five minute sections

**[14:03]** on a machine where you are in zone one, zone one, and then zone two. And if you don't know

**[14:09]** what that means, super easy, super easy, then kind of easy. We are taking the blood that is

**[14:16]** circulating in our midline around our organs and we are sending it out to our arms and our legs

**[14:21]** and our entire body. It's going to help oxygenate tissues. It is going to help you

**[14:27]** regulate heart rate, but we have to do that slowly.

**[14:30]** So we do it over the course of, we build from, you know, basically where

**[14:34]** you're at when you start, and then we want to land that 180 minus your age

**[14:38]** all the way at that 12 or 15 minute mark.

**[14:40]** So if you feel like it's insane and you want to walk for part of it, you

**[14:46]** want to do an echo bike for part of it, like there's nothing wrong with that.

**[14:49]** That's totally fine.

**[14:50]** But that's where we are going to start our warmup with something like this.

**[14:54]** From there, we got to go into mobility, activation, and movements.

**[15:00]** I'm really thinking about my hips in something like this.

**[15:04]** That's going to be kind of the dominating feature there.

**[15:07]** But then we're thinking down the road to potential redo.

**[15:11]** So I'm thinking lower leg as well.

**[15:13]** Thinking about rolling out the arches and thinking about flossing the ankles.

**[15:16]** I'm thinking about getting some ankle pumps in just to feel that out and make

**[15:20]** sure that we have our sliding surfaces there.

**[15:22]** And if you feel tight in a particular area, we're going to take the voodoo floss and we're going to go really tight there.

**[15:28]** And we're going to work through range of motion.

**[15:30]** So for me, I'm really thinking about that to get started.

**[15:34]** If we're dealing with some shoulder mobility issues, that's when we're going to spend a little bit more time there.

**[15:40]** We're going to do the floss on the shoulders as well.

**[15:43]** We're going to address the T spine, but honestly, don't think that that's as big a part of this workout, unless you're accumulating well over 200.

**[15:52]** of the wraps and you're going to have to deal with sort of the ramifications down the road.

**[15:57]** So we're going to go through, Paige, do you prefer activation or mobility first post warm

**[16:04]** up? How do you put that together?

**[16:07]** I usually like I'll do my squat hold sometimes even before I do a sweat check, but typically

**[16:12]** it's sweat check mobility stuff. And then I go into activation from there. Sometimes

**[16:16]** there's a little bit of a combination if there's a time restraint, but for something like this

**[16:20]** where I'm prioritizing just this workout for a session.

**[16:24]** It's like, I'm going to take that extra time to separate them

**[16:26]** and give attention to both.

**[16:29]** What are you thinking about for activation

**[16:30]** on something like this?

**[16:32]** So I'd also consider low back.

**[16:35]** A lot of people tend to get that low back pump

**[16:37]** when it comes to box jump overs and wall balls.

**[16:40]** You're just kind of sitting in those hips for a while.

**[16:42]** So I'm thinking I like something along the lines of like tempo

**[16:47]** box step downs, or I'm really getting some kind of glute activation.

**[16:52]** And then starting to feel some of that tension in the actual leg, like adductor areas as

**[16:57]** well.

**[16:58]** I'll hit some duck walks, things like that.

**[17:00]** I'll probably floss out my triceps.

**[17:02]** I know me personally, I'm going to feel some of that in there.

**[17:07]** So I just am going to floss them up, get them loosened up pretty much.

**[17:12]** And so yeah, I mean those, I typically keep it pretty simple.

**[17:16]** I don't try to add too much.

**[17:18]** I just kind of know what works for me.

**[17:21]** And like the tempo box up downs are just a really, really big one for me.

**[17:24]** I'll do two sets of eight on a 20 inch box, and then I'll do two sets of six on each leg

**[17:30]** on a 24 inch box.

**[17:31]** Yeah.

**[17:32]** I'm big.

**[17:33]** If you're dealing with the low back stuff, I'm really big on glute activation before

**[17:37]** something like this.

**[17:38]** I want to feel the muscle contraction in a place that's not as natural for me.

**[17:42]** so I can try to replicate it within the movement that I'm actually going to do.

**[17:47]** That's typically why I'm doing something like that, because the musculature in my posterior

**[17:52]** chain isn't firing in the same way that it is in the frontal plane.

**[17:56]** So that's the way that I typically think about that.

**[17:59]** From there, I am just a rotate through ascending levels of the movement before I go into something

**[18:08]** like a primer.

**[18:09]** I will do air squats and like box jump step back down.

**[18:15]** And then I will go to front squats with the ball

**[18:18]** and I'll potentially do some step ups with the ball there.

**[18:21]** Then we work our way.

**[18:22]** So I'm basically just switching back and forth

**[18:24]** between variations of these movements.

**[18:27]** And like, let's say my lower half was sore,

**[18:30]** I would start even with a lower box

**[18:33]** to start to work myself into it.

**[18:34]** But I wanna really feel each time I jump up,

**[18:38]** like I was ready to do that movement

**[18:40]** as I'm working my way through.

**[18:41]** And then you eventually just get to a point

**[18:43]** where you're doing some box jump overs,

**[18:46]** box step overs with the ball and some wall balls.

**[18:48]** Nothing wrong with a couple of heavy wall balls

**[18:51]** or jumping a little bit higher or that sort of thing

**[18:54]** if you like the feel of it feeling a little bit easier

**[18:57]** when you go into it.

**[18:58]** Honestly, with this one related to a primer,

**[19:02]** I like the idea of really feeling kind of smooth

**[19:07]** controlled at the beginning of a workout like this.

**[19:11]** So I'm probably going to rely on a machine for a primer and it's going to be really

**[19:14]** short.

**[19:15]** I'm going to go over either to a row or an echo bike, and I'm just going to do these

**[19:20]** quick little bursts that get me into that heightened state.

**[19:24]** But I typically am looking for a primer closer to something that's in that

**[19:29]** shorter time domain or something that requires a lot of like really heavy

**[19:34]** effort early on.

**[19:36]** Yeah.

**[19:36]** With it being the first workout, with the adrenaline of that,

**[19:40]** I do like the idea of a little bit of one,

**[19:42]** but it would be on a machine.

**[19:44]** Yeah. I think I, like through the years,

**[19:48]** I've learned that I like my primers to have the movements involved in it,

**[19:53]** but I'll typically also involve a machine.

**[19:55]** Yep.

**[19:56]** So something like this, it might be like,
