---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389"
published: 2026-02-26
episode_number: "389"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:58"
chunk_end: "29:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389 - Chunk 3

Episode: [[../episode|Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389]]

## Transcript

**[19:58]** I'm going to do maybe two rounds of it,

**[20:02]** so it's like a gradual increase of like,

**[20:04]** I'm gonna get a feel for cadence and then so it's gonna be like machine wall

**[20:09]** ball box jump over the second round of that I'm gonna push the machine really

**[20:13]** hard and then feel out the two movements and you know just again get that feel of

**[20:18]** like I know it's gonna suck so I want to have a little bit of experience with

**[20:23]** that prior to starting. Yeah all right let's talk strategy. You have to be as

**[20:32]** fit as

**[20:34]** It'll be more on the women's side lower box some of the taller women with that wall ball. It's just

**[20:42]** All day long fast. Yeah, so we have the joke if everything's cardio if you're brave enough

**[20:49]** This is not cardio for most people

**[20:52]** But we do have the individual cadence movement, which is basically the box jump over but also includes the step over

**[20:59]** So what that means is we need to know what our all day wall ball set is.

**[21:06]** And we're going to do that for the entirety of the workout until clock is ticking.

**[21:10]** We're running out of time.

**[21:11]** We got to have that push and we have to moderate our pace on the box jump over to allow that to continue to happen.

**[21:20]** And there's a push and a pull there.

**[21:22]** pull there. So if you think your all day set is 15 to 20 reps and it's actually 10, you're

**[21:29]** going to have to slow down too much on the box jump overs. I love anywhere from five

**[21:35]** to like 12 reps with almost no rest. Like at all in there. That's that's personally

**[21:42]** what I like for almost every athlete, right? We're not dealing we're not giving advice

**[21:48]** right now to Colton and Jason for this workout.

**[21:51]** We are giving advice to the masses and you want to pick a set where when you drop it,

**[21:56]** you just pick it back up and go again.

**[21:58]** And it's going to feel like you don't need to early on.

**[22:00]** Honestly, it's not going to take very long.

**[22:02]** Second or third set, you're going to be glad that you did.

**[22:05]** That's when you can start to do the push and pull.

**[22:08]** This is a workout where you can think a little bit, right?

**[22:10]** You got to judge, they're counting for you.

**[22:12]** You don't have to deal with that.

**[22:13]** So you really want to think about your body language, the way that you're carrying yourself,

**[22:19]** and how the push and pull of your original strategy is actually working.

**[22:24]** And if you're really serious about this and worried about where you're going to finish,

**[22:27]** you got to make sure that somebody is taking your splits down for you, or hopefully you're

**[22:31]** doing a video and you can do those splits for yourself and you can go back and watch.

**[22:36]** Obviously the trap here is 26.1.

**[22:38]** We're all excited.

**[22:40]** We've been doing open prep.

**[22:42]** or in quarterfinals prep right now,

**[22:44]** your body is happy when you pace things well

**[22:49]** or even underpace a little bit and then decide to push.

**[22:53]** Your body does not like pushing too hard

**[22:56]** and then recovering from that,

**[22:58]** especially in a window of 12 minutes

**[23:00]** and then figuring out how to come back

**[23:02]** from the dead essentially.

**[23:03]** Body's not good at that.

**[23:05]** Your mind is usually not along for the ride

**[23:07]** because there's a lot of, you know,

**[23:09]** the check engine lights on,

**[23:10]** Your heat's too high, something's up with your oil.

**[23:14]** You got no headlights.

**[23:15]** Your body gets those warning signals

**[23:17]** and it's not a fan of them.

**[23:19]** So we're gonna choose that set.

**[23:21]** And if you decide we're moving to sixes,

**[23:24]** sevens, eights, nines, tens, 11s, whatever it is,

**[23:27]** go for it, right?

**[23:29]** Yeah.

**[23:30]** But warning, you're going up.

**[23:33]** You're going all the way up to that 66 rep point.

**[23:36]** So keep that in mind as you're working through it.

**[23:39]** And yeah, I mean, it's really just about the push and pull

**[23:43]** of what are your all day sets

**[23:46]** and then how are you moderating your box jump overs.

**[23:48]** If your box jump overs get really slow,

**[23:51]** you're not doing the right thing on the wall.

**[23:53]** Yeah, yeah.

**[23:54]** And that's typically where you're gonna start

**[23:56]** to see the body language change too.

**[23:58]** But I mean, we do, you know, if you're following Misfit,

**[24:02]** you're doing forever pace on machines over and over again.

**[24:05]** It's like, how can you translate that to your wall balls?

**[24:09]** You know, just to give you something to kind of think about

**[24:11]** in a positive way.

**[24:12]** Movement efficiency.

**[24:14]** Keep your heels down.

**[24:16]** Yeah, so what we are looking for in the wall ball

**[24:19]** is the people who love wall balls,

**[24:20]** the people who are really good at wall balls,

**[24:22]** they're doing them all day long.

**[24:23]** It's annoying to watch, they don't look that tired.

**[24:26]** They look like their feet are cemented into the floor.

**[24:29]** And if their feet are cemented into the floor,

**[24:31]** then they're not gonna be able to rely on that lean forward

**[24:35]** and kind of hips sagging forward and extending

**[24:39]** while the knee stays kind of partially closed.

**[24:42]** So if people are wondering what the heck is going on here,

**[24:45]** it's like knee extension is, you just stood all the way up.

**[24:49]** That's probably the easiest way

**[24:50]** to think about knee extension.

**[24:52]** But when we're thinking about squatting,

**[24:54]** you wanna think about it from the perspective of,

**[24:56]** you're in this perfect quarter squat.

**[24:58]** You're almost on your squat.

**[25:00]** You should be really balanced in your feet,

**[25:02]** you know, a little bit of an angle to your hip,

**[25:03]** a little bit of an angle to your knee.

**[25:05]** When we're at that point,

**[25:06]** we are thinking of snapping the knee open.

**[25:09]** That will open your hip.

**[25:12]** We will get hip extension there.

**[25:14]** We find that if we teach it through the knee extension,

**[25:17]** then we get a lot of force generated from the lower half.

**[25:20]** And then the ball just kind of floats up

**[25:21]** and we're doing our thing.

**[25:23]** The, there's a lot of mumbo jumbo

**[25:26]** that's gonna be put out there

**[25:28]** surrounding the rest of the wall ball.

**[25:30]** We just don't want anything essentially that's egregious.

**[25:34]** So we don't want you clamping onto the wall ball

**[25:37]** on the sides, you know,

**[25:38]** doing the, getting your extra pec work out in.

**[25:41]** We don't need that.

**[25:41]** We need to be underneath it.

**[25:42]** So the force regenerating from underneath the ball

**[25:45]** can make the ball go up.

**[25:47]** We don't want our arms just waiting all the way up

**[25:50]** in the air, stood all the way up

**[25:51]** so that we can now do another full weighted squat.

**[25:54]** We want to think about it like how the Olympic lifts

**[25:57]** have taught us to catch a bounce

**[25:59]** where we have this really beautiful receiving position.

**[26:02]** We're just above parallel.

**[26:03]** we catch the ball, takes us into our bounds,

**[26:05]** then we have less of the squad itself

**[26:09]** actually loaded the whole time.

**[26:11]** Right.

**[26:12]** So that's really important there.

**[26:15]** Anything to add with the wall ball before we?

**[26:18]** I mean, we just got a question, movement efficiency,

**[26:20]** about dropping the arms while the ball is in the air.

**[26:24]** I find it effective.

**[26:25]** I'm someone who will go up

**[26:27]** and bring them out to reset down here.

**[26:30]** Again, I mean, do you want to hold your arms like this

**[26:32]** for 10 minutes and are like straight, can you do that?

**[26:35]** So you wanna get them back into that position

**[26:39]** as quickly as you can once you release that ball.

**[26:41]** I like to teach it like the clean, you know?

**[26:43]** Yeah.

**[26:44]** I want a nice receiving position there.

**[26:46]** And like if it's truly the bottom of it,

**[26:49]** you're probably gonna have some recoil.

**[26:51]** So when you watch athletes that are good at them,

**[26:53]** there is an accepting of it

**[26:54]** that makes it kind of smooth going down in.

**[26:57]** The whole like Ben Smith

**[27:00]** and apparently Paige, Samantha, and some other people

**[27:03]** of the swimming the arms out and around.

**[27:05]** As a reason, yeah.

**[27:06]** I don't care.

**[27:07]** Do it.

**[27:08]** That does not bother me.

**[27:10]** Some people like it.

**[27:10]** Some people, the timing gets off.

**[27:12]** I think there's a coordination element to that.

**[27:14]** But don't get wrapped up in the minutia.

**[27:17]** You will see a lot of videos, and most of those videos

**[27:21]** are for clicks, a lot of the content that is put out.

**[27:24]** So we want to make this as simple as possible.

**[27:25]** Also, you got to do anywhere from probably 180 to 240 wall balls here.

**[27:33]** Do not completely change the way that you move today in this workout.

**[27:37]** It won't go that well.

**[27:38]** And then you're just going to go back to, you're just going to go back to moving the

**[27:42]** way that you did before in a lot of instances.

**[27:44]** How are you thinking about the box jump over page?

**[27:48]** Definitely not straight on.

**[27:50]** Like you got to be a little, I don't know, I guess, you know, you want to have a

**[27:54]** little bit of an angle or be completely lateral if possible.

**[28:00]** Like the footwork on top of the box matters, how you're turning around and

**[28:03]** loading for the next rep matters.

**[28:05]** Um, so that is something that like, if I'm on one side, I want to be able to

**[28:10]** replicate it on the other side.

**[28:12]** I'm jumping up.

**[28:14]** When I'm thinking about it, I'm getting one foot as close to the edge as possible

**[28:20]** in my landing so that that foot is coming right off the box and I'm staying

**[28:24]** close to the box. So, you know, typically it's kind of like a, I'd say a quarter angle,

**[28:32]** but a lot of athletes may go lateral. If you have to go forward based on like safety or

**[28:36]** fear of the box, you know, it just might take a little bit more time than you're spinning

**[28:40]** on top of the box.

**[28:41]** You guys can figure this out pretty easily in warmup. We are very powerful facing the

**[28:45]** box and we are very slow facing the box. We are not very powerful if we are perpendicular

**[28:51]** and just staring off, not at the box at all, but we're a little bit quicker.

**[28:56]** So the movement efficiency and the timing of it is the balance that you're searching

**[29:01]** for when you're finding that angle.

**[29:04]** What feels smooth, what doesn't feel like it's particularly taxing to maybe like one

**[29:09]** leg or you just don't feel powerful.

**[29:11]** You feel like you really got to rip your knees up because you're not really able to jump

**[29:14]** that sort of thing.

**[29:15]** So when you're warming up, feel out that spectrum

**[29:19]** of completely facing all the way to turning sideways.

**[29:23]** And you'll see what we're talking about.

**[29:24]** And then you can, once you know where you feel comfortable,

**[29:27]** that's when we can start to get into the footwork

**[29:29]** that Paige is talking about, where we're landing

**[29:32]** with that inside foot and that outside foot

**[29:35]** is getting us closer to the other side.

**[29:37]** So we have an easier step down when it's related to that.

**[29:40]** The step overs, we saw, we saw,

**[29:44]** I think we saw basically four different versions here of this.

**[29:47]** A little bit, yeah.

**[29:48]** And it did feel like, you know, I'd have to go back

**[29:51]** and watch closer and just watch one person,

**[29:53]** but it did feel like Jason's variation was the way
