---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389"
published: 2026-02-26
episode_number: "389"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:54"
chunk_end: "53:29"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389 - Chunk 6

Episode: [[../episode|Open Workout 26.1: Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.389]]

## Transcript

**[49:54]** Also, you know, there's the bodybuilding community

**[49:58]** of like, let your muscles continue to break down

**[50:00]** for X period of time.

**[50:02]** Once you are breathing normally as a human being,

**[50:06]** water, electrolytes, protein, carbohydrate,

**[50:09]** that is a, that insulin spike from those things

**[50:12]** lets your muscles know that you're done.

**[50:16]** There's that insulin spike is like,

**[50:17]** hey, we're done.

**[50:18]** We are shutting down the catabolic window.

**[50:20]** We are introducing the anabolic window.

**[50:23]** So make sure that you do that.

**[50:25]** It's not like, oh my God, if I don't get this protein in,

**[50:28]** I'm not gonna get muscle protein synthesis.

**[50:30]** It's actually has to do with that insulin spike,

**[50:32]** which is a good thing.

**[50:33]** I know that that's terrifying to have people

**[50:35]** in the CrossFit community.

**[50:36]** If you meet a carb, you'll die.

**[50:37]** But I think you guys are gonna be all right.

**[50:40]** Anything else?

**[50:41]** McKenna sent me a text that she's signing up for the open so she could do this workout.

**[50:45]** She's going to have a bunch of messages over here that I can see.

**[50:47]** And I'm like, I can't continue to do the podcast and answer all of these simultaneously.

**[50:53]** So I think that's probably unless any questions come in in the next three or four minutes,

**[50:59]** we'll wrap this up.

**[51:00]** We've got a little doozy, a little 108 box jump over, 246 wall ball, couplet, medium,

**[51:08]** just that dirty.

**[51:09]** I don't know if it's short.

**[51:10]** I don't know if it's long time domain where pacing can be really challenging, right?

**[51:16]** Like I don't need to dial way back because it's super long and I can't stomp the gas

**[51:21]** pedal because it's not super short.

**[51:23]** And man, I hope people have bought into the GPP propaganda and rain or shine mentality

**[51:30]** because you guys will do significantly better if that's the case.

**[51:33]** Yeah, Vic, I will consider going live tomorrow evening doing it here at my gym, but I'll

**[51:39]** see what kind of cameras I have because we're no longer affiliated. So I need to record

**[51:43]** my workouts.

**[51:44]** She got a double camera. You have live camera.

**[51:47]** Yeah, if I can do that, I will. We'll see.

**[51:50]** Yeah. Got it. Cool.

**[51:51]** I appreciate you too, Tony.

**[51:52]** All right, guys. Rain or shine is the hashtag that you are going to add to your games profile

**[51:58]** this year so you can be on the leaderboard for shout outs and prizes and all that good

**[52:02]** stuff as we work our way through the open. We've got a couple more of these live podcasts

**[52:08]** to do and then we'll do kind of a wrap up show and give people shout outs there.

**[52:13]** We have the brand spanking new rainbow sherbet or sherbet.

**[52:19]** Buddy knows, but it is number two on my power rankings, guerillamind.com, forward slash

**[52:25]** misfit or use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[52:28]** Our programming is available at the link in bio on Instagram for all of our programs.

**[52:33]** Really fun sort of having you guys seeing you in the chat there, having the conversations

**[52:38]** It's crazy to have these wild seasons where we go from the open all the way to the games

**[52:44]** and you just want to take a damn night.

**[52:46]** And then October rolls around, you're like, you need your fix.

**[52:49]** We got to get back to this.

**[52:50]** We got to get into it.

**[52:51]** We got to do our thing.

**[52:52]** So it's really exciting to be able to do that and to be able to do it with you, Paige, and

**[52:56]** to be able to do it with the whole gang here.

**[52:58]** So yeah, can't wait to get into it.

**[53:00]** Can't wait to talk to everybody over the course of the weekend.

**[53:02]** Again, make sure that you are paying attention to your email and telegram and programming

**[53:08]** platforms and all that stuff for any changes.

**[53:11]** We'll see you guys next week.

**[53:12]** Bye guys.

**[53:13]** Sweet.

**[53:14]** Misfits!

**[53:18]** Alright you redneck bunch of misfits

**[53:21]** You're a scrappy little misfit just like me

**[53:26]** Biggest bunch of misfits I ever said either
