---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396"
published: 2026-04-22
episode_number: "396"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396 - Chunk 1

Episode: [A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're all Misfits! Alright, you can't take bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:11]** The biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said aye's on.

**[00:17]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast on this week's episode,

**[00:23]** a CrossFitters guide to accessory work.

**[00:27]** The most exciting episode that I could think of

**[00:31]** is to go deep, deep, deep down the rabbit hole

**[00:34]** on accessory work.

**[00:36]** All jokes aside, we are very much in back to basics,

**[00:40]** base building season and off season block one.

**[00:44]** Affiliate programming starts a new season

**[00:46]** here in a couple of weeks

**[00:47]** and we like to deliver information in a similar fashion.

**[00:51]** So we are starting with the most basic of the basics

**[00:55]** and we'll kind of work our way through,

**[00:57]** weave in episodes for the next few months here

**[01:00]** that talk to you about programming and executing

**[01:04]** on accessory work, skill work, strength work,

**[01:06]** conditioning work, all that good stuff

**[01:08]** so you guys can really understand how to get after it.

**[01:13]** Before we do that, as always,

**[01:14]** we've got some housekeeping items.

**[01:16]** Very soon within the next one to 72 hours, you guys are going to start seeing a lot of posts about semi-finals athlete jerseys.

**[01:29]** The teaser there is Phoenix Suns old school basketball jerseys.

**[01:37]** Kind of a play on the rain or shine element there.

**[01:41]** A little bit of a nod to my late grandmother

**[01:44]** who was a huge basketball fan and loved the like,

**[01:48]** I'll date myself here, Kevin Johnson, Charles Barkley sons.

**[01:52]** And I always thought those jerseys were cool as hell.

**[01:54]** So that's where the concept comes from there.

**[01:57]** It's fun.

**[01:58]** Two of the athletes that have jerseys

**[02:01]** are competing this weekend.

**[02:02]** So they won't get to wear them while they're competing,

**[02:04]** but it's kind of cool timing

**[02:06]** because you guys will be supporting them

**[02:09]** and supporting their journey by doing that.

**[02:12]** So keep your eye on Instagram, Telegram,

**[02:15]** your email, all of that stuff.

**[02:17]** And it means a lot to us and the athletes

**[02:20]** when you support kind of the whole crazy travel schedule

**[02:24]** this time of year.

**[02:25]** New Misfit affiliate phase gets started on May 4th.

**[02:30]** Next week's podcast, Hunter will join us

**[02:33]** and we will go over the compound.

**[02:35]** This is the first programming phase of the 26-27 programming year, which is exciting.

**[02:43]** So it was exciting to kind of come back around to a new year and think of ways to improve

**[02:49]** what we're doing, all that good stuff.

**[02:51]** So affiliate programming podcast will be dropping next week.

**[02:55]** I will give probably the final shout out for the next few months for remote coaching, still

**[03:00]** an opening or two with the remote coaching there, but we will be full.

**[03:04]** Again, I predict kind of by the end of May, you can still get on a wait list at that point.

**[03:09]** But if you are interested in getting into remote coaching, make sure you fill out that

**[03:13]** application on our website.

**[03:17]** This episode of the podcast, along with all of the episodes of the podcast are brought

**[03:22]** to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[03:24]** You can head to gorilla mind.com forward slash misfit or use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[03:29]** If you missed last week's reboot episode or just didn't want to listen to it because you

**[03:33]** listen to it the first time. I gave my travel essentials. I will stand by those

**[03:37]** creatine gummies. I kind of, I'm back home and I kind of miss my candy because

**[03:42]** I just have regular creatine. But you get, you get pulled over for speeding

**[03:46]** through TSA with your bags and canisters of powder enough times that you try to

**[03:51]** find a way to travel with something else. And then their electrolytes are back, the

**[03:57]** IV rush, and they have the single serve packets. And for whatever reason, if you

**[04:02]** You take all of that powder and put them in tiny things instead of a canister.

**[04:06]** They don't think that you are bringing drugs on the airplane and you can just walk right

**[04:09]** through, which is nice.

**[04:12]** But product of the week.

**[04:13]** So Gorilla Mode is the name of their pre-workout.

**[04:18]** They have a Gorilla Mode nitric, which is their non-stimulant version.

**[04:23]** I've basically only used that for bodybuilding.

**[04:27]** Definitely notice a difference.

**[04:28]** It's actually honestly a pretty good segue to accessory style work, eking out a few extra

**[04:33]** reps, that sort of thing.

**[04:34]** But I had only used it for that.

**[04:37]** And on the off occasion that I get like a free Saturday or Sunday morning to really

**[04:42]** get after a conditioning piece, I ride the Lightning and I use the bad boy that's above

**[04:46]** my head right there.

**[04:48]** That is the full caffeinated version.

**[04:50]** That is rocket fuel.

**[04:51]** I don't recommend using that daily, but that's definitely something that you can pull out

**[04:54]** of your back pocket when you need it.

**[04:56]** But yesterday I was coming off vacation.

**[04:58]** You know that first workout after vacation?

**[05:01]** I was scared.

**[05:02]** I was scared.

**[05:03]** So I had fifth gear, C2 bike, four by four minutes,

**[05:07]** rest two minutes and 45 seconds.

**[05:09]** And I honestly just kind of was like,

**[05:12]** I'll take placebo effect.

**[05:14]** I'll take whatever I can get.

**[05:15]** So I did two scoops of the non-STEM.

**[05:17]** And when I got into, so I typically get into zone five,

**[05:22]** just a little bit longer in each round.

**[05:26]** Like, I'll touch it maybe in round one,

**[05:29]** but then I'll be swimming in those waters

**[05:31]** by round four for most of it.

**[05:34]** And honestly, it was only heart rate

**[05:36]** with the pre-workout.

**[05:38]** I didn't have the leg burn that I normally do.

**[05:41]** Interesting.

**[05:42]** So definitely notice the difference there.

**[05:44]** Gorilla Mode Nitric is what it's called.

**[05:47]** Regular Gorilla Mode is the one with the caffeine.

**[05:49]** GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit or use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[05:54]** I did always like that proper had that we had a non-STEM.

**[05:59]** I use that one a lot.

**[06:01]** I don't think I just want to try.

**[06:03]** Yeah.

**[06:04]** It's yeah.

**[06:05]** I think a good non-STEM you flush waste a little bit better and then there's a mental

**[06:11]** acuity.

**[06:12]** I think that comes along with it.

**[06:13]** That was one of the things that I tried to formulate proper for was staying in it mentally

**[06:19]** because obviously in endurance work, it's like a lot of it's just those moments where

**[06:25]** you're like, I don't really want to do this anymore.

**[06:27]** Yeah.

**[06:28]** Very monotonous.

**[06:29]** Shout out of the week.

**[06:30]** What you got Paige?

**[06:31]** I'm going to shout out Joetta on Telegram.

**[06:33]** Joetta Halpin, I believe is her name.

**[06:35]** She's been dealing with a back issue.

**[06:37]** She has a competition coming up in a couple of weeks and that one obviously hits close

**[06:41]** to home for me, but it sounds like she's doing all the right things.

**[06:45]** Yeah, true.

**[06:46]** It sounds like she's doing all the right things.

**[06:48]** She's seeing her PT.

**[06:49]** She works in a PT office, which is very helpful for her, but she's kind of staying on the

**[06:53]** recovery side of it and giving intensity to where she can.

**[06:57]** So yeah, that one just really hits close to home and I hope she's ready in three weeks.

**[07:01]** I think there's a good segue there to one of mine.

**[07:03]** I have three and one of them is maybe the first double shout out that I've given.

**[07:08]** I just think people have been very supportive of her and kind of jumped in because they

**[07:12]** know what that can do to you.

**[07:15]** It's really the core, the backbone, whatever analogy you want to use.

**[07:21]** It's a big deal when you feel that way.

**[07:23]** And last week, being on vacation and being on vacation very early in a new programming

**[07:31]** block is a little stressful for me, just not feeling like I can communicate with the community

**[07:37]** at large as often as I would like to. And with the level of activity and more and more

**[07:43]** people feeling comfortable posting in there and having conversations in there, like huge

**[07:48]** shout out to all of you guys that are just helping each other and answering questions.

**[07:52]** I think that's incredibly helpful for a bunch of different reasons. And I think it helps

**[07:56]** really solidify the community if it's not always just like Paige or I jumping in and

**[08:01]** answering those questions. So huge shout out to all you guys for doing that in general.

**[08:06]** especially while I was away.

**[08:08]** The double shout out.

**[08:09]** So this weekend is the Legends Championship in Delmar, basically San Diego, California.

**[08:18]** Adrian Winges and Missy G are both throwing down in the Masters community.

**[08:23]** I have so many more thoughts and so many more rants related to this season.

**[08:29]** But the Masters having this kind of new level with these Super Bowls is so cool.

**[08:35]** We'll have a whole other conversation about something else that we're

**[08:37]** excited about next week, Paige.

**[08:39]** Oh, it'll be good that Hunter's on too.

**[08:41]** That's true.

**[08:43]** It's good timing.

**[08:44]** I'm just, I'm stoked for both of them.

**[08:46]** They've been working their tails off on this semi-finals prep, probably the

**[08:50]** first real big gnarly, meaty prep that both of them have done.

**[08:56]** And I just, I'm really excited for both of them.

**[08:58]** And then the double shout out comes from Adrian as a thank you for the

**[09:02]** the semi-finals programming sent a book to my son.

**[09:07]** That's so cute.

**[09:08]** About excavators.

**[09:09]** And if you want brownie points with me,

**[09:11]** making my son smile is probably the tip.

**[09:16]** This is probably as good as it gets.

**[09:18]** So cute.

**[09:18]** I much prefer that than something for me.

**[09:21]** So big shout out.

**[09:22]** He loved the book as well.

**[09:24]** And the stickers.

**[09:25]** He took all of the stickers and put them

**[09:27]** on his garage that is made out of a Pampers nighttime box.

**[09:31]** Yeah, so awesome.

**[09:35]** Yeah, I mean, let's let's just talk about the fact that we have, let's see in this master

**[09:40]** semi finals prep on telegram, there's 16 members in there.

**[09:45]** That is just so 16 member and there's lurkers too.

**[09:48]** There's other people.

**[09:49]** You know?

**[09:50]** Yeah, yeah, which is just awesome.

**[09:53]** You know what's funny is we've like, because it's the athletes that are doing it, I'll
