---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396"
published: 2026-04-22
episode_number: "396"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:55"
chunk_end: "39:52"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396 - Chunk 4

Episode: [A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:55]** I think as we originally thought.

**[29:58]** The tricky part with CrossFit is there are an absurd number of intense muscle contractions

**[30:06]** and basically every workout we do.

**[30:10]** So that also has to be taken into account.

**[30:12]** And then we just talked about how we're trying not to crush you, but we're crushing your

**[30:17]** nervous system intentionally.

**[30:19]** So that also has to be taken into account within the strength world.

**[30:23]** work is that thing like the zone two where we get to tack on an extra 10%.

**[30:28]** That number is made up.

**[30:30]** It's full bro science, but just a little, just that little bit extra, the kind of thing

**[30:35]** that can push you over the top in strength and muscle endurance where we can control

**[30:42]** the damage, right?

**[30:44]** We can move the sliders around.

**[30:46]** We can do less sets.

**[30:47]** We can do less reps.

**[30:49]** We can do lighter weights.

**[30:50]** We have to do things that are actually appropriate for the rest of the program.

**[30:56]** In the off-season, so that would be for Misfit Athletics, that's off-season block one, off-season

**[31:01]** block two, phase zero, phase one, phase two, phase three.

**[31:05]** Accessory work is programmed for the masses before the movements that are in the workouts.

**[31:11]** So we're going to have strength, accessory, stimulus of the workout, stimulus of the bitch

**[31:18]** work and skill work all there without the actual movements in the CrossFit workouts,

**[31:25]** in your traditional Metcons and intervals.

**[31:28]** Over the course of the year, we have to trend towards sports-specific choices within Metcons

**[31:36]** and intervals where we're not sacrificing anything inside of the accessory work.

**[31:42]** So we will go through and program all of the movements that are in there and then tweak

**[31:47]** the accessory work to make sure that it actually fits. And like, I'm trying to think of how to

**[31:52]** make the connection, but basically it's less sports specific early on in the year,

**[31:57]** and then more sports specific as we make our way sort of to competition prep.

**[32:03]** Like what I hear is it's very intentional to keep quality the priority, right? Like,

**[32:08]** as far as movement selection, being first with accessories before the conditioning pieces,

**[32:13]** like GPP is GPP, you're going to get fit with the movements that we choose.

**[32:16]** in the formats that we put it in.

**[32:18]** So we get to be very intentional about the lifting

**[32:21]** and about the accessory.

**[32:24]** That an easy way to put it?

**[32:26]** Yeah, very much so.

**[32:27]** And I don't want to, if you are a programmer,

**[32:30]** don't make your accessory programming so robust

**[32:34]** that you can't program anything.

**[32:36]** Like if we were to,

**[32:38]** we use something called a movement tracker

**[32:39]** when we're programming.

**[32:41]** We have a list of basically every movement

**[32:43]** that we would use in a conditioning piece

**[32:45]** and ones that are used more often in the sport

**[32:47]** at different levels or italicized or bold.

**[32:51]** If we're looking at our program and we see a massive gap,

**[32:55]** we know that the skill work's got to change

**[32:58]** or the accessory work's got to change, that sort of thing.

**[33:00]** So don't try to do the square peg round hole thing.

**[33:04]** At the end of the day, getting people better at CrossFit

**[33:08]** is gonna happen in the meccons and in the intervals,

**[33:10]** and we need variants and we need touch points

**[33:13]** under intensity on all the movements that we would typically do.

**[33:16]** One sort of anecdote about the way that we've programmed accessory work over the years,

**[33:20]** for a few years at the beginning of programming it more outside of the remote coaching realm,

**[33:26]** we had the rotation of lift carry hold, and we also did a double rotation.

**[33:32]** So by the time you made it all the way through the phase, you only repeated a certain movement

**[33:38]** a few times.

**[33:39]** And I think for me, that was probably the crossfitter in me that wanted more variants

**[33:46]** related to these things.

**[33:49]** But then I would be in the remote coaching setting and I would have the same things week

**[33:53]** after week because it was personalized and they worked a lot better.

**[33:58]** So that's why if you've been with us for a while, that has changed a little bit.

**[34:04]** So what we're looking for, that I'll bring up here in a minute in execution, is for you

**[34:10]** guys to basically have repetition intentionally.

**[34:13]** When you go to make those choices of which ones you're going to do, we want you doing

**[34:17]** them for all eight weeks to see the benefits of.

**[34:20]** Yeah.

**[34:21]** There's a bit of that like exposure component to it as well.

**[34:23]** Actually, there's, I think Lindsey Hoffman just posted something in Telegram about having

**[34:27]** not touched a heavy sandbag for a little while and like needing to get more exposure.

**[34:31]** seeing that at least once a week is going to help benefit her, especially when it comes

**[34:36]** time to compete.

**[34:37]** Yeah, that's one thing where I don't know, you feel like you're screaming to the community

**[34:43]** on mute, where it's like, if you are just, if you're really bad at something in relation

**[34:50]** to the rest of your skills, you live with that shit.

**[34:54]** Sleeping with the sandbag, right?

**[34:55]** So remember the Titans, you drop the football, you run a mile.

**[34:59]** If you, the sandbag is not within view of you and you're awake, you run a mile.

**[35:04]** So I mean, and you guys saw it with, you guys saw it with Froning, you saw it with Fraser,

**[35:10]** you saw those things where it was like they felt embarrassed by being bad at one movement.

**[35:15]** And then they went home and just did that movement over and over and got better at it.

**[35:18]** So that is definitely something where you can identify the weakness within the athlete

**[35:24]** and then they don't work on it.

**[35:26]** And it's very confusing that it's like those specific weaknesses to you are the ones that

**[35:31]** do truly need that extra attention that doesn't really live within the traditional CrossFit

**[35:36]** programming lens.

**[35:38]** Remote coaching settings, it's a lot easier to move the needle when specifics are taken

**[35:43]** into consideration.

**[35:44]** I'm trying to get you better at X. I do my best to follow the trends of whether there

**[35:51]** There are community-wide weaknesses through execution of workouts, through competitions,

**[35:57]** where I can look at trends, but programming for hundreds of athletes versus one just presents

**[36:03]** different challenges, which is where the idea of the variable training system came from.

**[36:08]** So volume of accessory work is going to be dependent on the athlete, where they're at

**[36:12]** in their journey, strengths and weaknesses, how much time they have to train, what total

**[36:16]** volume is appropriate for them.

**[36:18]** So eventually, down the road, you're working with an athlete for that second or third year,

**[36:25]** you want the amount of accessory work that they're doing within a year to go down over

**[36:32]** the course of the year.

**[36:33]** We really want to build those foundations through and then not have as much of it, not

**[36:40]** have to rely on as much of it when we are trying to be more sports specific.

**[36:44]** Now you're talking in terms of like starting in the off season.

**[36:47]** Yeah.

**[36:48]** if we were starting now.

**[36:49]** Like someone coming off of the easiest example would be Paige comes off of the CrossFit Games

**[36:57]** and she's got 10 accessory pieces a week and then she's got three to six when we're into

**[37:04]** competition prep unless we're working on something very specific.

**[37:08]** Because again, the more, the closer to the season or in the season, sports specific training

**[37:14]** is incredibly important.

**[37:16]** All right, so that's how I think about programming, accessory work.

**[37:20]** I think that went smoother than I thought it was going to, Paige.

**[37:23]** What do you think?

**[37:24]** No, it did.

**[37:25]** It definitely did.

**[37:26]** For the listener, I'm usually someone who needs the very much like dummy one-on-one

**[37:31]** version of how it's explained.

**[37:33]** And I thought that was pretty clear.

**[37:35]** So a peek behind the curtain, Paige has sat through hours and hours and hours of meetings

**[37:42]** where I'm talking about this very thing here.

**[37:45]** And she's probably the best pupil that I've had in terms of not finding her asleep in

**[37:53]** the corner of the video while I'm talking.

**[37:56]** So I told her before the podcast started, if you're bored of all people, we are in deep

**[38:00]** trouble.

**[38:01]** All right, execution.

**[38:03]** How do you execute?

**[38:04]** You're an athlete.

**[38:06]** How do you get this stuff done and actually move the needle?

**[38:09]** Misfit disclaimer, very specific to our programming.

**[38:12]** We're going to use the accessory instructions from Offseason Block 1 as an example.

**[38:17]** Accessory work is meant to be done, but not at the expense of conditioning.

**[38:23]** Add them as often as time permits.

**[38:26]** This podcast has a very specific title because the context matters.

**[38:30]** A CrossFitters guide to accessory work.

**[38:33]** A training day for a competitive CrossFitter void of intensity through conditioning is

**[38:40]** not going to be in the cards for 99.9999999% of you. And I mean every single conditioning day,

**[38:48]** or every single day. Freudian slip. Conditioning is king.

**[38:52]** Loading up on what we talk about today and neglecting energy system development will make

**[38:56]** you worse at CrossFit period. If you don't use it, you lose it. I could probably give

**[39:03]** Kenzie Riley 48 accessory pieces. She wouldn't do them. So maybe a bad example. But I can't think

**[39:10]** of very many people who hold on to fitness at a cellular level within that way.

**[39:17]** So you just cannot get cute with the way that you program, with the way that you coach,

**[39:24]** with the way that you execute as an athlete.

**[39:27]** That being said, identifying your current priorities and sticking to them through a

**[39:32]** set period of time is really important.

**[39:35]** But the expense of conditioning means two different things at different points in the

**[39:39]** year and different for different athletes.

**[39:42]** So like two accessory pieces instead of a second conditioning piece makes a whole lot

**[39:48]** of sense for a lot of athletes at certain times of year, right?
