---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396"
published: 2026-04-22
episode_number: "396"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:52"
chunk_end: "49:49"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|A CrossFitter's Guide to Accessory Work - E.396]]

## Transcript

**[39:52]** Like I don't want you guys to think that I'm saying you got to do a ton of conditioning

**[39:57]** and then if you still have time after you have to do it.

**[40:01]** A lot of people that follow our programming have 60 to 120 minutes to go get after it.

**[40:09]** If they were to do two lifts and two accessories or one lift and two accessories and maybe

**[40:15]** a skill every once in a while, they might not have time to do conditioning at all.

**[40:19]** That's where we're like, that's way too far.

**[40:22]** We've had that question from people, like, what if I just skipped the Metcon?

**[40:28]** Then you go to their open page, they need some Metcons.

**[40:31]** They need a lot of Metcons, right?

**[40:34]** Four pounds strict press,

**[40:36]** ain't moving the needle on not being able to do burpees, right?

**[40:39]** So don't get cute with that.

**[40:41]** But I do just the context of what type of year it is,

**[40:45]** what your goals are, incredibly important here.

**[40:47]** Okay, actually executing the movements, range of motion,

**[40:51]** hugely important, full long range of motion here.

**[40:56]** Okay? We don't want the like bodybuilder style

**[41:00]** kind of barely lockout thing.

**[41:03]** We don't want the dumbbell brought down next to your ear.

**[41:06]** We want full range of motion.

**[41:09]** And that's another thing that's going to limit

**[41:10]** the amount of weight that you can use,

**[41:12]** but over time is going to make a huge difference

**[41:15]** in your pressing.

**[41:16]** Like a lot of the people that struggle

**[41:18]** with handstand pushups, you see them fall onto their head,

**[41:23]** reset, and then go again because they don't have

**[41:26]** that strength within that end range

**[41:28]** to have that contractile potential

**[41:30]** to be able to push themselves back up.

**[41:31]** Speed matters in both directions.

**[41:34]** We want eccentric loading as part of accessory work.

**[41:38]** We wanna be able to control weights.

**[41:41]** That's gonna help with connective tissue, tendons,

**[41:44]** all that good stuff.

**[41:45]** It's gonna keep us a lot healthier.

**[41:47]** And then depending on what you're trying to accomplish,

**[41:50]** there are a lot of instances where the concentric,

**[41:53]** the press or the pull or the standup out of the squat

**[41:57]** or the lunge, we do want some speed to that.

**[42:00]** We want to sort of manipulate tissues related to the actual movement pattern that we have.

**[42:04]** Skill transfer is so huge.

**[42:07]** Like there are so many movements within CrossFit that have huge implications on skill transfer

**[42:15]** that people bastardize in the name of just doing more weight at a specific thing.

**[42:22]** And then it doesn't allow them to get better at the other thing.

**[42:26]** Back squat would be a really good example.

**[42:28]** Like if you aren't trying to do an Olympic style back squat

**[42:33]** And then you want it to transfer to your front squat your overhead squat your snatch your clean

**[42:37]** There's going to be a problem there if we are trying to use strict pulling as an upper back accessory

**[42:44]** And you're doing the lean back use the biceps your hands close together. That's not going to help you in that position

**[42:51]** Strict press leaning back and getting into a bad position there. There's so many instances of this

**[42:56]** you want to, in accessory work, specifically move in a way that translates to all of the

**[43:03]** movement patterns that you can think of that are similar. Like if you do that in a pushjerk or a

**[43:08]** splitjerk, you're just going to drop the bar, not going to be able to get kind of your head back

**[43:13]** through. It's not going to transfer there. And your body's going to notice those things. So it's the

**[43:17]** movement patterns themselves in the actual positions. And then something we talked about,

**[43:23]** I think maybe one or two podcasts ago would be the mental skill transfer.

**[43:28]** I love finding what someone is capable of in a low-stakes setting so that they can feel

**[43:36]** how far they can really push themselves. So those farmers lunges.

**[43:40]** Like if your heart rate was up and you felt the same way, would you drop them? If you

**[43:45]** weren't just doing a dead hang or a farmer's carry and you were holding on for another tote bar, chest to bar,

**[43:52]** whatever grippy thing that's in the thing that you're doing,

**[43:55]** would you drop sooner? Like that sort of thing.

**[43:57]** So I love the idea of showing people, like,

**[44:00]** you can be in pain, you can be uncomfortable,

**[44:03]** you can still move, right?

**[44:06]** It might not be the best thing to do in that moment

**[44:08]** and that workout, but there are moments where you are,

**[44:11]** your mental connection to how you're feeling physically

**[44:15]** is gonna make or break, you know, that,

**[44:18]** especially in in-person competition,

**[44:20]** Just those moments at the end like that's something page that you've always excelled at like if there's 10 more feet

**[44:26]** You're not putting the dumbbells down if you're gonna know rep me and I think it backwards first. I'm gonna do it

**[44:33]** Uh-huh and thank goodness because that's probably my biggest pet peeve

**[44:37]** Yeah

**[44:37]** I think that the biggest one that sticks out for me with this is

**[44:40]** when I was getting into like some dumbbell bench press with you and he talked about like

**[44:45]** like trying not to pause at the top and just making sure that you could hit a really tight

**[44:49]** lockout and press with speed.

**[44:51]** And things like that, I think have translated the most for me, someone who does struggle

**[44:55]** with pressing things like strict handstand pushups of like, you know, you're not pausing

**[44:59]** at the top of your strict handstand pushup.

**[45:01]** So why are you pausing at the top of your dumbbell bench?

**[45:04]** Again, there's that transferability there that has actually paid off dividends as far

**[45:09]** as my pressing capacity.

**[45:12]** And that's one thing that I get to talk to my athletes about now too, of the speed and

**[45:18]** your movements really do matter.

**[45:20]** So it should matter in your accessory work too.

**[45:23]** And another thing that you're good at that can help twofold is you recognize when this

**[45:31]** thing is making this thing better.

**[45:32]** So it'd be like this back squat is really making my first pull in the snatch and the

**[45:37]** clean stronger.

**[45:39]** Or this variation of pressing is helping my handstand pushups.

**[45:43]** And that kind of feedback for a coach is huge or feedback for yourself and what you're choosing

**[45:47]** is huge because you're getting better at that other thing.

**[45:52]** The more strict handstand pushups you can do, the faster you're going to progress within

**[45:57]** them.

**[45:58]** And then if you believe that this junk volume, quote unquote, is moving the needle and like

**[46:05]** a really important part of your training, that does something for you mentally, that

**[46:10]** buy-in of like, this is working, I'm going to get myself there.

**[46:13]** So being mindful of this movement feels better than it has, what is the other thing that's

**[46:19]** actually moving the needle, I think can be incredibly helpful.

**[46:24]** The last thing that I put in there was just resist the urge to be a crossfitter here,

**[46:28]** if we're gonna do amazing range of motion,

**[46:32]** eccentric loading, positioning, all of that.

**[46:35]** I consider that being a sophisticated meathead.

**[46:39]** I, when I got into the world of bodybuilding a little bit,

**[46:44]** just to understand it a little bit more,

**[46:47]** the people that are really good at it

**[46:49]** that I watched on YouTube and Instagram

**[46:52]** have incredible range of motion,

**[46:55]** incredible levels of control throughout.

**[46:59]** Like you can definitely tell a cross-bitter

**[47:01]** when the dumbbell's doing this kind of stuff

**[47:02]** because those stabilizers aren't quite

**[47:05]** where they need to be yet.

**[47:07]** But then at a global gym,

**[47:09]** I still can't believe that community

**[47:10]** is the community making fun of us.

**[47:12]** They move like shit.

**[47:14]** They have no range of motion.

**[47:16]** Like it's crazy.

**[47:17]** Like they're basically like they like kip,

**[47:19]** they kip half of the machines that they're on

**[47:21]** and they don't like our kipping.

**[47:22]** We'll do that rant another day

**[47:23]** but always cracks me up.

**[47:25]** But the people that are incredibly good at it

**[47:27]** are good at it because they have a level of control

**[47:31]** to their movements and that range of motion is huge.

**[47:35]** So be a sophisticated meathead.

**[47:38]** If you go watch Chris Bombstead videos and check out,

**[47:41]** if that dude at that size can do that range of motion,

**[47:44]** you can figure out how to do that range of motion.

**[47:47]** Okay, primary accessory execution,

**[47:50]** challenging but never failing reps.

**[47:54]** If you are failing, there's only one reason

**[47:56]** why that should happen, and that's because

**[47:58]** you haven't done it yet, and you're in week one,

**[48:00]** or you're in preview week, and you're figuring it out.

**[48:02]** You don't know what way to use, that's totally fine,

**[48:05]** that's not a big deal.

**[48:06]** If your ego is becoming part of this,

**[48:09]** and you are failing reps, that's a problem.

**[48:11]** Every once in a while, dumbbells are tough,

**[48:14]** because of the increments.

**[48:15]** Every once in a while, you think you're ready

**[48:18]** for the extra five pounds, but it's 10 pounds,

**[48:20]** and your arms aren't fucking connected,

**[48:22]** which is just frustrating.

**[48:23]** So that would be another thing.

**[48:25]** That happens every once in a while.

**[48:26]** That's not a big deal.

**[48:28]** But we want, you can make a movement more challenging.

**[48:32]** If you're doing it and you think you went too light,

**[48:34]** slow down the eccentric, hold the contraction at the top

**[48:38]** if you're trying to get hypertrophy, that sort of thing.

**[48:40]** There are different ways to make it challenging.

**[48:42]** What we don't want is people failing reps.

**[48:44]** Runway is the key here.

**[48:47]** This is huge.

**[48:48]** I have this rudimentary graphic that is almost always a part of my first remote coaching

**[48:55]** meeting called the ramp.

**[48:57]** It brings me back to the X Games skateboarding big air days where they had that like mega

**[49:04]** ramp and they would be, they had to have like different trucks on their skateboard because

**[49:08]** they would wobble and like die otherwise, but they got on that huge ramp and it gives

**[49:12]** them a ton of speed to shoot off the jump.

**[49:14]** What too many coaches and programmers do is they place you at the bottom of a hill and

**[49:21]** tell you to pedal up that hill and then you fall off the jump.

**[49:24]** It's not a jump, it's a cliff.

**[49:27]** What good coaches do is they figure out how much runway you need, depending on your skill

**[49:32]** level, your muscle fiber type, all that good stuff, and they give you a ton of momentum

**[49:37]** so that when you do start going uphill, you actually have speed to be able to take off

**[49:43]** and go further than you normally would go.

**[49:46]** So if the goal is I wanna move this weight
