---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390"
published: 2026-03-05
episode_number: "390"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "10:00"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** What's up Misfit? It's Drew. If you are listening to this or watching this, you have arrived at the

**[00:06]** post-production version of the 26.1 recap in 26.2 live announcement. Just like last week, if you

**[00:14]** weren't here, if you're new, we just chopped out some portions of Dead Air when we were live. We

**[00:20]** got rid of the portion when they were doing the workout, but that live version does still exist.

**[00:25]** We want to watch the full thing all the way through. That is going to be on our YouTube channel,

**[00:29]** 26.2 livestream. But yeah, you could follow along if you wanted to in that way. Otherwise,

**[00:34]** 26.2 live announcement, 26.1 recap starts now.

**[00:40]** We're all Misfits!

**[00:42]** All right you bad pic, don't you misfit?

**[00:46]** You're a scrappy little misfit, just like me.

**[00:50]** The biggest bunch of misfits I've ever said either.

**[00:54]** Good morning misfits, you are tuning into yet another

**[00:58]** ultra-mega super special edition misfit podcast.

**[01:02]** We got the 26.1 recap coming your way for the next half of the week.

**[01:06]** We got the 26.1 recap coming your way for the next half hour.

**[01:11]** And then we will jump into the 26.2 live announcement.

**[01:15]** We'll watch it with you.

**[01:16]** We'll talk about it, talk about strategy and warmup and tips and answer your questions

**[01:21]** and all that good stuff, just like last week.

**[01:24]** So most of the people that tune into this, that listen to the podcast are aware of the

**[01:28]** fact that we started a supplement company years ago called Proper Fuel and Rest in Peace,

**[01:34]** Proper Fuel.

**[01:35]** a lot of people don't know is that a lot of the inspiration for proper fuel was a YouTube

**[01:42]** channel called Derek at More Plates, More Dates.

**[01:46]** Derek is the ultimate meathead nerd right up my alley.

**[01:50]** And he just had a lot of really awesome content about supplements that actually work and the

**[01:54]** doses that you need.

**[01:56]** And that sort of sparked the idea to do proper fuel.

**[01:59]** And now that proper fuel doesn't exist.

**[02:01]** I annoyed someone at Gorilla Mine for long enough

**[02:05]** that they became a sponsor of the show.

**[02:08]** So if you are a proper fuel fan from back in the day,

**[02:12]** I've got some relics down here somewhere on my shelf,

**[02:16]** just as a reminder, but if you are a fan,

**[02:18]** our flagship product was Recover,

**[02:22]** and it was basically trying to get all the things

**[02:24]** that we need post-workout into one bottle.

**[02:27]** The next best thing is getting it in two bottles,

**[02:30]** and you can get what basically what we were trying to do,

**[02:34]** protein, carbs, creatine, electrolytes, post-workout.

**[02:38]** And I've been doing the intra strawberry kiwi

**[02:42]** from Gorilla Mind and the vanilla ice cream protein together.

**[02:45]** Tastes fantastic.

**[02:47]** And again, you get the flexibility

**[02:50]** that people actually ask for from us.

**[02:51]** Like, hey, I love recover, but I would also like just weigh.

**[02:54]** So like I can use it in other scenarios, other contexts.

**[02:57]** So maybe it's not even the next best thing.

**[02:59]** maybe it's just as good because it's got some flexibility there.

**[03:02]** So you can head to GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit or just use the code word misfit

**[03:06]** at checkout.

**[03:08]** You're going to save money on what I thought were the best supplements in the game even

**[03:11]** before we were ever involved with them way back in the day and you support the show by

**[03:15]** doing so.

**[03:16]** So GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit.

**[03:19]** Paige, you did 26.1 not once, but twice.

**[03:24]** Yikes.

**[03:25]** Why don't you tell the people about that and then maybe just commentary on doing the workout

**[03:30]** because I'm sitting in this chair typing and doing whatever, not doing wall balls.

**[03:36]** So tell us about it.

**[03:38]** Yeah.

**[03:39]** So our gym here is no longer an affiliate, so I submit my scores via video.

**[03:44]** So I have it judged by the public and I want to leave no doubt in my video.

**[03:50]** So I went back and watched it.

**[03:52]** of a rush job on my part of getting myself set up and ready to go. First time doing it

**[03:57]** Friday night lights here as well, so that was kind of part of it. But again, I take

**[04:02]** responsibility and I didn't like what I saw in my video. I didn't like the angle, the

**[04:08]** squat depth, and it just, it didn't sit right with me and I don't want the public scrutiny

**[04:14]** for it. So, um, ended up doing it twice, which the second time I tied my score and I got

**[04:23]** a three seconds slower tie break, which is kind of sad or four seconds or whatever. But

**[04:28]** with the way that I felt and to watch my video and feel like I was literally moving in slow

**[04:33]** motion the second time, I will take the same score.

**[04:36]** Oh yeah. For sure.

**[04:38]** So like no doubt in my video, I'm not questioning anything about it.

**[04:42]** And yeah, I mean, they, you know, thank God we do so much C2 bike zone two, because like

**[04:50]** my legs handled it.

**[04:51]** And I actually like the soreness after the second time was not nearly as good as the

**[04:55]** first time.

**[04:56]** When you say we, you mean you, because there are people watching this that are not doing

**[04:58]** their zone two.

**[04:59]** Guys.

**[05:00]** And they're hurting and now they'll do it.

**[05:02]** Yeah.

**[05:03]** I mean, granted I was sore for four days, but you know, so is everybody else.

**[05:08]** to go back and do it a second time.

**[05:09]** Like just, you know, it wasn't as bad, but.

**[05:13]** And for the people I will put out there,

**[05:16]** I watched Paige's first video,

**[05:19]** and there weren't any reps where you would pause it

**[05:21]** and say she's above parallel.

**[05:23]** Like this is no good,

**[05:25]** but there were plenty where from the angle,

**[05:27]** you were like, it's probably a good rep.

**[05:30]** Yeah, and the speed and.

**[05:33]** Exactly, yeah.

**[05:33]** So that makes it tough.

**[05:35]** And obviously the angle,

**[05:37]** I won't call you short, but maybe you are short

**[05:41]** and maybe that's not the easiest thing

**[05:43]** to kind of show range of motion.

**[05:45]** So definitely a shout out there for the integrity for that

**[05:48]** because that's the kind of thing where

**[05:51]** you probably would have been totally fine.

**[05:53]** And it's just kind of a reminder of like what you do

**[05:58]** when the darkness comes to the light sort of a thing.

**[06:00]** So I thought it was cool that you did it

**[06:03]** and I will tell people I did not tell her to redo it.

**[06:05]** So that was a hundred percent on her own.

**[06:09]** Yeah.

**[06:10]** All right, so this was again, a very cool workout

**[06:14]** just from the perspective of the message

**[06:17]** that we've been trying to put across to people.

**[06:19]** And I thought that the way that we programmed

**[06:23]** leading up to it prepared people pretty well.

**[06:25]** Now that we're done with it, I can say something

**[06:29]** that I had a bit of rest with in the Telegram group.

**[06:33]** When we get into these phases and we talk about a strategy

**[06:37]** that's supposed to game the workout a little bit,

**[06:41]** we can't get too cute with it.

**[06:43]** And people were like, all right, here's what I'm thinking.

**[06:46]** I'm gonna do a half a wall ball.

**[06:47]** I'm not even gonna do a wall ball.

**[06:49]** And then each round I will just do twice

**[06:51]** as many half wall balls.

**[06:52]** And that's obviously a joke,

**[06:53]** but we don't wanna get too cute with like, okay, tens,

**[06:57]** drop it and pick it right back up.

**[06:58]** And then all of a sudden people are like,

**[07:00]** I might be going threes or fours.

**[07:02]** And this is a 12 minute workout.

**[07:04]** So it's just one of those things where like,

**[07:07]** you know, we can,

**[07:08]** I kind of left it alone in the telegram group,

**[07:10]** but after the fact, we'll say it now

**[07:12]** so that maybe you can bring it into this next one

**[07:14]** so that people again, like, it's still nasty.

**[07:17]** You still got to grind,

**[07:18]** you still got to hold onto the wall ball.

**[07:19]** You still got to kind of do your thing.

**[07:20]** Yeah.

**[07:21]** So with that said, let's do,

**[07:24]** we will read off the top 10 men and the top 10 women,

**[07:27]** but then every single person who put their name

**[07:30]** the Rain or Shine leaderboard will be up for a Sharpen the Axe gift card to get you some

**[07:34]** misfit gear.

**[07:35]** So if I call, if your name gets called and maybe you get some free shit anyways, or I

**[07:43]** would send you free shit, we're going to go to the next person.

**[07:46]** And if you're listening to this and you're like, they just said my name and I don't have

**[07:49]** anything, you also get to message me and say, hey, give me my free stuff.

**[07:53]** So it's just maybe more prizes depending on.

**[07:59]** I'm going to read the top 10 men and then Paige is going to press a little number over

**[08:02]** there and tell me, um, which number gets the prize.

**[08:06]** Oh, shout out coming in at number one with 331 reps, 229th in the world is Adam Selmani.

**[08:14]** Then we go to Kyle Moline, Tyler Cluver, Wyatt Mel, DJ, Michinsky, Michael Zekin, John Dohmic,

**[08:23]** Anthony Greco, Nicholas Cole Butler, and Hunter Stewart.

**[08:29]** And because he is an absolute legend on Telegram, Jason Barrow, two reps behind and 11th is

**[08:36]** going to get a shout out as well.

**[08:38]** Paige, hit me with a number.

**[08:41]** Let's see.

**[08:42]** 16.

**[08:43]** Number 16, Peter, man with the names.

**[08:46]** I got to go on to like Chad GPT or Google before this.

**[08:52]** Peter Nazar-Roots.

**[08:54]** Nazar-its.

**[08:55]** Peter Nazar-its.

**[08:57]** That actually sounds fair.

**[08:58]** I'm gonna add like five to 10 to 20 to $30 to your gift card

**[09:02]** because I can't say your name, Pete.

**[09:04]** I apologize.

**[09:04]** You know where to find me.

**[09:05]** Telegram, coach at misfitathletics.com, email, DMs,

**[09:09]** we'll get you set up with your gift card.

**[09:11]** I will say from last year,

**[09:12]** there are some gift cards that have been unused.

**[09:16]** Yikes, beautiful.

**[09:16]** And I actually think one person reached out to me

**[09:19]** and said, you didn't give me a shirt.

**[09:20]** and I said I didn't give you a shirt,

**[09:22]** I gave you a gift card and he didn't use it.

**[09:24]** So if that's you, I use your gift card

**[09:26]** or ask me and I'll hook it back up.

**[09:28]** All right, let's go to the women.

**[09:30]** Okay, Naz, thanks Pete.

**[09:31]** There he is.

**[09:32]** Naz works. Pete Naz.

**[09:33]** Bubs. Pete Naz with the prize.

**[09:36]** All right.

**[09:38]** From the top rope, 24th in the world.

**[09:41]** Freezing. The legend continues.

**[09:45]** I get a text that says 80% of my training these days

**[09:48]** is bodybuilding.

**[09:50]** if she didn't already piss people off

**[09:53]** with the way that she just strolls in and does this stuff.

**[09:55]** Here she is, Mackenzie Riley, age 38,
