---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390"
published: 2026-03-05
episode_number: "390"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "10:00"
chunk_end: "19:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390 - Chunk 2

Episode: [Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[10:00]** 24th in the world with 11 minutes and 32 seconds.

**[10:04]** She's just silly.

**[10:05]** The other, yeah, incredible.

**[10:07]** The other finisher of the workout in second place,

**[10:10]** Elena Pomerisi, 11 minutes and 50 seconds.

**[10:16]** We've just seen how hard that she's worked over the years.

**[10:19]** We love the raid crew.

**[10:20]** So shout out to her.

**[10:22]** Absolutely incredible.

**[10:23]** Love to see it.

**[10:24]** We go on down the line.

**[10:26]** Lindsey Hoffman, Peyton Forsythe, Paige Simenza, McKenna

**[10:29]** Enzlin Mel.

**[10:31]** Shout out for going in and signing up for the open

**[10:34]** just to do this workout.

**[10:36]** And then she said, I just sent it, which is fantastic.

**[10:40]** Emma Hagstrom, Adrian Winjes, Kelly Clark, Kaylin Mitchell.

**[10:46]** And then not a surprise here.

**[10:49]** I guess 11th place is for the Telegram Legends,

**[10:51]** Ashley Dubrikey with 282 reps.

**[10:54]** Fantastic job, Paige, random number generator.

**[10:58]** What do we have?

**[11:00]** Was I four?

**[11:01]** I gotta redo that.

**[11:02]** Four, who's four vibes?

**[11:03]** Peyton Forsythe, yes, there we go.

**[11:07]** Congratulations, you get some free gear.

**[11:10]** Again, you know where to find me.

**[11:11]** Telegram, coach at misfitathletics.com,

**[11:15]** Instagram, smoke signal, carry a pigeon.

**[11:18]** whatever you gotta do, get in touch.

**[11:19]** So a lot of people did not put their name

**[11:22]** on this leaderboard, and if you wanna shout out,

**[11:24]** if you want a chance to get some free stuff,

**[11:26]** you go into your competition dashboard and add Rain or Shine.

**[11:29]** I had to manually add Paige Simenza

**[11:32]** because she did not add hers.

**[11:33]** I can't figure it out.

**[11:35]** Well, we'll do it.

**[11:36]** Anyone else can, let me know.

**[11:37]** I think you should go into your competition dashboard

**[11:39]** and type Rain or Shine into the hashtags.

**[11:41]** I'll show you my hashtags that come up.

**[11:43]** Maybe you gotta delete it.

**[11:45]** Maybe you gotta delete one.

**[11:46]** Yeah, but I don't even know where.

**[11:47]** My hashtags that come up, United States, CrossFit Trainer, Pennsylvania, and Cat Mom.

**[11:52]** And I can't figure out where to add another one.

**[11:55]** Isn't there just like a thing in your competition dashboard?

**[11:57]** There's nowhere on you that I can add.

**[11:59]** If anyone knows, let me know.

**[12:01]** Yeah, we're going to need some help here.

**[12:02]** Yes, Adrian, you messaged me.

**[12:05]** It's been a while now.

**[12:06]** You've been in the top 10 of these announcements for years.

**[12:10]** We just talked about her yesterday.

**[12:12]** Yeah, and I probably said your name wrong 50 times.

**[12:16]** And the hinges with the W was very helpful.

**[12:20]** Somebody else is also having trouble doing the hashtag, so it's not just you, Paige.

**[12:25]** Thank you.

**[12:26]** Yeah.

**[12:27]** All right.

**[12:28]** So I have one more thing here.

**[12:32]** Actually, really quick.

**[12:33]** So a lot more listeners to this podcast, a lot more live viewers, a lot more people come

**[12:38]** in and want to listen about 26.2.

**[12:41]** There are four iterations, Adrian, I got you, legend status, free gift card.

**[12:48]** So there are four variations of semi-finals prep and trying to do marketing for follow

**[12:55]** my flow chart, get your cracker jack box out so you can find your secret decoder ring and

**[13:00]** you pointed out the sun and it reflects too much.

**[13:02]** So if you are planning on doing the online individual semi-final, an in-person individual

**[13:10]** semi-final, an in-person age group semi-final,

**[13:13]** or the online semi-final.

**[13:15]** If that is your largest goal,

**[13:17]** if that is a bigger goal for you than quarter-finals,

**[13:20]** we are starting semi-finals prep this coming Monday,

**[13:24]** and you need to get in touch with me directly.

**[13:26]** This is the kind of program where I don't like

**[13:29]** to just put it out there for anybody to follow.

**[13:31]** I want you to be able to communicate with me

**[13:34]** and kind of work through how we're trying

**[13:36]** to execute on the program.

**[13:37]** So if you're trying to prep for any of those things

**[13:40]** and you wanna know when you're starting

**[13:42]** and how to get the program,

**[13:43]** please reach out coach at misfitathletics.com

**[13:46]** at misfitcoach on Instagram,

**[13:47]** at misfitcoach on Telegram.

**[13:49]** Please get in touch with me.

**[13:51]** Let's chat about the mostly right now

**[13:54]** master's online semi-finals prep.

**[13:56]** Yeah.

**[13:57]** Starts this coming Monday.

**[13:58]** Okay, so I, this is gonna drop soon.

**[14:02]** This is a little bit of a teaser,

**[14:04]** but we got a Misfit Mind post coming out tomorrow

**[14:09]** that just feels very like technical difficulties,

**[14:15]** ladies and gentlemen.

**[14:16]** Welcome to the live version of the show

**[14:18]** or I can't just edit this out.

**[14:19]** So I think it's very timely.

**[14:21]** I'm listening to a podcast and there's this famous,

**[14:24]** like, I don't know, yogi, Buddhist, monk, spiritual teacher

**[14:30]** who was famous for exuding a calm confidence

**[14:33]** that people were just like,

**[14:35]** it was incredible to be in his presence.

**[14:38]** And at the beginning of one of his talks,

**[14:40]** he asked people, do you wanna know what my secret is?

**[14:43]** And of course, everyone said, yes, please tell me.

**[14:46]** And his response was, I don't mind what happens.

**[14:48]** And he did not follow up.

**[14:51]** He did not go into further detail related to that.

**[14:54]** And this is this concept of having a,

**[14:58]** in our world, a process-oriented mindset

**[15:02]** where if we get so obsessed with outcomes

**[15:06]** and we're resistant to particular outcomes,

**[15:08]** you are essentially gonna be a shell of yourself

**[15:11]** when you go to compete.

**[15:13]** And if we're using that brain space for,

**[15:15]** oh my goodness, what's gonna happen in competition

**[15:18]** in the open, then when we are training,

**[15:22]** that is taking away from it, right?

**[15:24]** So it's like, I'm obsessed with,

**[15:25]** I'm gonna finish in this spot.

**[15:28]** Everyone's gonna think that I did so well,

**[15:31]** which we shouldn't care as much about just as much as,

**[15:33]** oh my God, everyone thinks that I didn't train all year.

**[15:36]** And again, that takes up that brain space

**[15:38]** where we don't get to really buy into the process.

**[15:41]** And you would think that telling someone

**[15:44]** in a competitive realm,

**[15:46]** I don't mind what happens is the secret,

**[15:49]** is like so counterintuitive.

**[15:51]** Like it's this like blase attitude of who cares?

**[15:54]** It doesn't really matter.

**[15:56]** But what it does again,

**[15:57]** is it gives us the opportunity to be present

**[16:00]** and have freedom in expression of the way

**[16:04]** that we did the work and now we're just showing it.

**[16:07]** So it's a really powerful thing in the coaching realm.

**[16:11]** It's very much the be the thermostat.

**[16:13]** If an athlete's like freaking out celebrating

**[16:16]** on event one or event two of a six event weekend,

**[16:19]** we try to kind of bring it back down,

**[16:21]** get ourselves back to a place where we can go to execute.

**[16:25]** We have someone who has a really bad event.

**[16:26]** We have to have that conversation of like,

**[16:28]** We don't get to choose the order of these.

**[16:30]** So we need to get back to where we were.

**[16:33]** Like that might've been a damage control type of thing.

**[16:35]** We have, that happens all the time.

**[16:37]** And then something that I think will resonate with you, Paige,

**[16:40]** it definitely does with me is this is a really hard mindset

**[16:44]** for a competitive person.

**[16:46]** 100%.

**[16:47]** Like it feels wrong in a way.

**[16:48]** But when you coach it, when you help other people,

**[16:54]** because you do believe in the concept deep down,

**[16:57]** When you help other people through adversity, and you help them brush it off and move on

**[17:03]** to the next thing, you start to, you have to exude that confidence, that calm confidence

**[17:10]** that you're trying to get them to do, and then you start to embody it.

**[17:13]** It starts to become a part of you because you see in them what the actual change is

**[17:18]** there.

**[17:19]** So I would just say to people, you've already done everything that you can, good, bad, or

**[17:26]** different related to this stuff. And if you can just go do it, instead of I'm so nervous,

**[17:34]** what are people going to think? You know, am I going to think that this was a huge waste

**[17:38]** of time? You're going to do better. Yeah. Like you really have the opportunity to go

**[17:44]** in and execute at a really incredibly high level. And the two examples that I thought

**[17:49]** of where they mentioned that the goalie for the US hockey team was napping on the bus,

**[17:56]** like on the way there. He didn't know that it was three and three on three in overtime

**[18:00]** in the gold medal game. He just like he's one of those people that like his parents

**[18:06]** didn't let him obsess over hockey. So like he didn't get recruited and he had to go this

**[18:11]** super long route to get where he was going. But he just was like no backup plan. I'm going

**[18:16]** to work as hard as I can and I'm end up being there.

**[18:18]** Now he's the best goalie in the world and one of the best players in the entire NHL.

**[18:23]** And then the Tom Brady thing where he would be napping before a Super Bowl, like in the

**[18:28]** locker room.

**[18:29]** Yeah.

**[18:30]** Because the process is the thing.

**[18:33]** Yeah.

**[18:34]** Like he was so devoted to that and the outcomes just happened and clearly with Tom Brady,

**[18:39]** some outcomes there.

**[18:40]** Yeah, for sure.

**[18:41]** Man, I could take that in so many different ways.

**[18:44]** Like I can give an example of myself, I can give an example of McKenna, I can give an

**[18:49]** example of a toddler falling and getting hurt.

**[18:52]** There are so many ways that that mindset plays into your everyday life really.

**[18:57]** I mean, you're talking Super Bowl, the most prestige event of the year, all year in America.

**[19:07]** And he's just taking a nap.

**[19:09]** That's wild.

**[19:10]** He did it.

**[19:11]** Right, right.

**[19:12]** the experience is there.

**[19:13]** And as we're talking here,

**[19:16]** the experience is already under everybody's belt

**[19:19]** that's doing this open.

**[19:20]** You did OpenSim in weeks prior,

**[19:22]** or you've done the open last year and the year before.

**[19:25]** So it does come with experience,

**[19:27]** but you also have to sometimes just be reminded

**[19:30]** and have somebody tell you these things.

**[19:32]** That's a very fitting podcast for you to be listening to,

**[19:35]** because that is how I feel this year.

**[19:38]** I feel like last year I put a lot of value on the things

**[19:41]** that I didn't actually find important for myself,

**[19:45]** like deep down, like internally.

**[19:47]** And I just, I didn't enjoy it.

**[19:49]** I didn't enjoy what I was doing.

**[19:50]** I put way too much pressure on external things

**[19:52]** that really didn't matter.

**[19:54]** And then this year I told you that like,
