---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390"
published: 2026-03-05
episode_number: "390"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:56"
chunk_end: "39:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390 - Chunk 4

Episode: [[../episode|Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390]]

## Transcript

**[29:56]** because I don't even know what shoe she has,

**[29:58]** but like, I probably said in my head,

**[30:01]** I hate these fucking shoes like a hundred times.

**[30:04]** You said that at the end of the weekend.

**[30:07]** Yes, yes.

**[30:08]** I have to get something off my chest.

**[30:11]** This is never again.

**[30:14]** Please don't go back and watch it.

**[30:16]** Don't go back and watch.

**[30:17]** I'm like, can I get some rads?

**[30:20]** I just emailed Adam.

**[30:22]** Adam Klink works for them.

**[30:23]** I'm like, hey, can I get some?

**[30:26]** He's like, yeah, what do you want?

**[30:27]** I got the Misfity ones.

**[30:30]** They had those purple ones and super comfortable.

**[30:33]** Yeah.

**[30:34]** Like crazy comfortable.

**[30:36]** I do need to go.

**[30:36]** the person to ask to test out shoes in a CrossFit setting.

**[30:40]** Yeah.

**[30:41]** But like, very comfortable shoes.

**[30:43]** Yeah, I do like them. I don't even have an issue running like,

**[30:46]** short distances on an assault runner with them. They've been pretty good. Let's see.

**[30:51]** Where are they?

**[30:51]** I just blacked out. I don't know what she just said. Wow. I have 100 members signed up for the open.

**[30:57]** That's crazy.

**[30:58]** CrossFit Black Edition? Is that what it said?

**[31:01]** Yeah. What modification would you make to pennies to make it more current?

**[31:06]** So we've had this discussion and I actually like that it is,

**[31:11]** I would create a totally different workout.

**[31:13]** I like that it is now for the best in the world,

**[31:16]** how fast can you run?

**[31:18]** Because that was awesome to watch.

**[31:19]** That was the version of Helen that was done at the games

**[31:22]** was really cool because you got to see that.

**[31:25]** Like I would definitely just write a different workout

**[31:29]** that was monostructural gymnastics weightlifting.

**[31:32]** Because honestly, the idea of the muscle up and people put too many eggs into that basket,

**[31:38]** honestly, because it's like the cool movement, I probably wouldn't even do that again. But at

**[31:42]** the time, the ability to do those squat cleans and the muscle ups and be able to run was crazy.

**[31:49]** But again, that was 15 years ago. So I would want to have like a training camp weekend with

**[31:55]** some of the best athletes in the world and just see how fast they can go. That would be

**[31:59]** how I would want to see that, for sure.

**[32:02]** It was 155 back then, 225?

**[32:06]** Like, that's what's crazy to think about.

**[32:08]** That's heavy back then.

**[32:10]** Yeah.

**[32:11]** Yep.

**[32:11]** They're in Portugal?

**[32:12]** Yeah.

**[32:13]** Tony, calm down.

**[32:14]** I didn't have to tell us twice with exclamation points

**[32:16]** both times.

**[32:18]** He is in the sea of fits.

**[32:19]** I mean, thank them for giving us these representations of this,

**[32:25]** right?

**[32:26]** Agreed.

**[32:27]** because they're, however good you think they are,

**[32:30]** they're like 10 times better.

**[32:32]** It's hard, Paige has context.

**[32:34]** It's hard for us to have context

**[32:37]** for the machinery that they're working with

**[32:40]** in a workout like this.

**[32:41]** So when they show us that there's probably,

**[32:45]** honestly for all three of them,

**[32:47]** a slightly slower version where,

**[32:51]** hey, break up those pull-ups a little bit.

**[32:53]** It's just, again, it's got nothing to do with

**[32:55]** whether you can do them or not.

**[32:56]** It's what is going to happen to you with the state that you're in metabolically, muscularly,

**[33:02]** once you arrive there.

**[33:04]** Yeah.

**[33:04]** And if you're going head to head with somebody and you see them pull ahead in those first

**[33:09]** 80 feet of lunges, just smirk a little bit.

**[33:13]** Exactly.

**[33:14]** No, hold yourself to your plan.

**[33:15]** That's going to be a big part of it.

**[33:18]** I can only imagine how bad first goes would be without the announcement.

**[33:22]** Because obviously, they already are and they're going to be anyways.

**[33:25]** because you get so excited.

**[33:28]** And the coach always puts Rage Against the Machine on

**[33:31]** with the three, two, one go,

**[33:32]** and it's coming all the way up.

**[33:33]** But like, we don't wanna get too cute

**[33:35]** and we don't wanna do this workout

**[33:37]** unless we don't have our muscle ups.

**[33:39]** If we don't have our muscle ups, you go.

**[33:41]** Yeah, for sure.

**[33:42]** You go in this workout.

**[33:43]** You're going for time, yeah.

**[33:45]** Take a minute break after you're done in whatever,

**[33:49]** four minutes, five minutes, six minutes,

**[33:51]** just sit there and wait before you start doing your stuff.

**[33:55]** and go flush out that body afterwards.

**[33:58]** Damn.

**[33:59]** Yeah.

**[34:00]** Jay Alexander wants to know, Paige,

**[34:01]** what is it like competing against Lucy and Amy

**[34:03]** and them being two emerging stars in CrossFit?

**[34:05]** Thanks for being a fan.

**[34:07]** They're very professional.

**[34:08]** They are, you know, I don't know if you guys saw

**[34:11]** like some of the reels that CrossFit was posting about them,

**[34:15]** you know, doing a TikTok or whatever beforehand,

**[34:17]** but like, it's not cutthroat with these guys.

**[34:20]** And I think that's what makes it an enjoyable experience

**[34:24]** when you're competing against them.

**[34:25]** I've seen Lucy training quite a bit

**[34:28]** when she came from overseas before World Fitness Project

**[34:31]** and again, very professional.

**[34:34]** You could tell when she's locked in,

**[34:35]** but also very respectful at the same time.

**[34:38]** They are fun athletes to watch.

**[34:40]** All right, so we kind of talked through it as we went, Paige.

**[34:43]** Any takeaways from watching that?

**[34:45]** Like, because when you're watching it,

**[34:47]** you're wondering, is this the pace?

**[34:50]** But then waiting for the muscle-ups.

**[34:53]** Yeah, I think I personally, sorry, I almost watched her fall.

**[34:59]** I personally, I like muscle ups,

**[35:02]** but I know I need to be smooth and strategic to get there.

**[35:07]** And it is one of those workouts where like,

**[35:10]** again, being in a group like that,

**[35:12]** I'm gonna go out faster than I should.

**[35:16]** And I'm gonna have to,

**[35:17]** I think you're playing around with that, nice work.

**[35:20]** I didn't mean to do that.

**[35:21]** I didn't even know that was a thing.

**[35:23]** Yeah, it's that calm is smooth, smooth as fast in the beginning,

**[35:27]** and very, very intentional on when I'm breaking.

**[35:30]** I'm not forcing reps early on in this kind of workout.

**[35:33]** Yeah.

**[35:34]** Yep.

**[35:34]** I'm curious too, because I was going to say Miram,

**[35:39]** she didn't switch arms nearly as much as someone like Lucy did.

**[35:42]** Or I wasn't watching Amy as much,

**[35:44]** but I'm curious how much that will play a factor for people

**[35:47]** too, instead of turning around and hanging

**[35:49]** onto that same arm, that quick switch.

**[35:52]** how much help does that give you?

**[35:54]** Yeah.

**[35:55]** I've learned to be very observant in these things

**[35:58]** because it's so hard as a coach to hold every archetype

**[36:03]** that's about to ask you for advice

**[36:05]** and do the workout in your head

**[36:06]** while you're watching someone.

**[36:08]** Also because people surprise you.

**[36:10]** The evolution of the sport surprises you.

**[36:13]** Someone will move and get to,

**[36:16]** I mean, she ended up having an issue with the lunges,

**[36:18]** but someone will be in the neighborhood of three minutes

**[36:22]** after two rounds and still like finish the workout

**[36:25]** the way that they intended to.

**[36:26]** But it's gonna be like a couple people in the whole world.

**[36:29]** So that's part of it when I'm watching it for sure.

**[36:32]** And just like you said, like, I mean,

**[36:36]** they were at the muscle ups for,

**[36:39]** that's a long time to be at the muscle ups for 20.

**[36:42]** For athletes of that level.

**[36:43]** How long?

**[36:44]** What was your split there?

**[36:47]** I don't, well, I was following the,

**[36:50]** I wasn't following the wrong athlete.

**[36:51]** I was following the person in the lead.

**[36:53]** Yeah.

**[36:53]** She went all the way from 4 and 1,

**[36:55]** 1, 2 minutes to like 7 and change.

**[36:58]** But 3 plus minutes for, it's funny to say that,

**[37:01]** because for a general population, that would be amazing.

**[37:03]** So if you do that, listener, congratulations.

**[37:06]** But probably if I had to guess roughly two minutes-ish

**[37:13]** for the other two in that range, at least, that kind of thing,

**[37:17]** they were probably closer to 445 plus when they got to the rings and Lucy finished at

**[37:24]** 652. So again, for those athletes, we could be talking about chopping 10 or 20 seconds

**[37:34]** off with some of the nuance of like, I know for me personally, but I'm a little bit more

**[37:40]** fast switch, I would go, I would probably go right arm for like two or three and then

**[37:48]** switch personally.

**[37:49]** Yeah.

**[37:50]** But if you are actually fit in like conditioned, I don't think there's anything wrong with

**[37:55]** like, well, I don't know.

**[37:56]** What do you think?

**[37:57]** Would you would you transition twice during the workout?

**[38:00]** My arms overhead.

**[38:01]** Like, would you go down, switch down, switch down?

**[38:04]** Or would you go down back switch?

**[38:06]** I would probably go down, back, switch, or I would go three lengths and I don't know.

**[38:12]** I kind of have to play around with it.

**[38:14]** A lot of times it is based on feel.

**[38:16]** I don't hate the idea of switching.

**[38:17]** Yeah.

**[38:18]** And you can adjust as you go for sure.

**[38:19]** Yeah.

**[38:20]** But I don't hate what Lucy did with switching overhead.

**[38:23]** Like I've practiced that before.

**[38:24]** I feel comfortable with it.

**[38:25]** And for me, knowing grip is like the main thing that I'd be concerned about by the time

**[38:30]** I got to the muscle ups that might be better for me in the long run.

**[38:35]** Right.

**[38:36]** Absolutely. So Caitlin, watch this technology. This is about to be insane.

**[38:40]** What do you suggest if you have one or two ring muscle-ups? I'm really happy with myself right now.

**[38:46]** So honestly, the advice isn't that much different than what I said because of the tiebreakers. I

**[38:51]** haven't seen the scoring sheet, but I'm assuming the tiebreaker time is when you finish your

**[38:57]** snatches if you get into the muscle-ups. And there are, Caitlin, the amount of people on

**[39:03]** on the leaderboard with zero, one, two, three muscle ups

**[39:07]** is gonna be pages of people just over and over and over.

**[39:11]** So if you want to be at the top of that,

**[39:14]** the play is this is from the opening lunge

**[39:18]** to your final set of dumbbell snatches four time.

**[39:21]** And then you're probably gonna have a long time,

**[39:26]** like a really significant amount of time

**[39:28]** to then go and do your muscle ups.

**[39:30]** And I don't wanna tell you to fully crash and burn

**[39:32]** because why not go get three, four, five muscle ups

**[39:36]** if you end up having seven or eight minutes to do them.

**[39:39]** But if we're talking tiebreakers here,

**[39:42]** the way that you push that I think is incredibly important.

**[39:45]** You know what's weird about this is I don't think

**[39:49]** the leaderboard is gonna be jammed up with people

**[39:53]** who are much, with people who are trying to finish
