---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390"
published: 2026-03-05
episode_number: "390"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:56"
chunk_end: "49:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390 - Chunk 5

Episode: [Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[39:56]** as opposed to what I just talked about

**[39:58]** because there's an insinuation of GPP

**[40:02]** when you can do 20 muscle ups in five, six, seven,

**[40:06]** eight minutes, something like that,

**[40:08]** that you're probably gonna get to a point

**[40:10]** with the other movements

**[40:11]** where you're giving yourself time to finish.

**[40:14]** So I think the real log jam for a lot of people

**[40:18]** is gonna be at that really low number of muscle ups.

**[40:21]** Yeah, I do too.

**[40:22]** And that means again, three, two, one, go

**[40:25]** all the way to your final snatch is four time.

**[40:27]** Yeah.

**[40:28]** That doesn't mean don't break it up,

**[40:30]** but it definitely means get it done as fast as possible.

**[40:32]** Yeah.

**[40:33]** I don't think I have much more to say than that.

**[40:36]** If you are confident that you have one or two ring muscle ups,

**[40:38]** then really push it and then give yourself a little bit

**[40:42]** of time to try and get on the rings.

**[40:44]** But don't get on the rings too early.

**[40:46]** Yeah, exactly.

**[40:47]** I really can't stress that enough.

**[40:49]** Because you're going to use up the muscle ups that

**[40:52]** are waiting for you in 30, 45 seconds, a minute longer,

**[40:56]** that kind of thing.

**[40:57]** make sure that you really feel ready when you go to do that.

**[41:00]** Yeah.

**[41:01]** So one thing that I don't want to do, I know that we're going to have unique listeners

**[41:05]** to each podcast, but one thing that I don't want to do is just say the exact same thing

**[41:10]** for the warmup stuff.

**[41:11]** I will make the post on Instagram again, where we talk through the specifics of the sweat

**[41:16]** check of mobility and activation, that sort of thing.

**[41:20]** So we'll go real like rapid fire here with it.

**[41:23]** I think that the sweat check is non-negotiable

**[41:27]** regardless of duration.

**[41:28]** So we're going four to five minutes, three times.

**[41:32]** So 12 to 15 minutes.

**[41:34]** And the easiest way to think about this

**[41:35]** is we are going for your resting heart rate

**[41:39]** up to your zone two heart rate by the end.

**[41:42]** That is the spectrum that we are taking

**[41:43]** from zero to 12 or zero to 15.

**[41:45]** So it's nice and easy.

**[41:47]** You don't have to switch machines every single time,

**[41:49]** But I think it helps mentally to switch machines.

**[41:53]** And we can get blood flow kind of into different areas there.

**[41:56]** This is one week where I would suggest the SkiErg,

**[42:00]** get some hips involved, get into some of those same positions

**[42:04]** that you would have, and then really get the upper body

**[42:06]** involved.

**[42:07]** Do not push.

**[42:08]** Like, if you're an aerobic monster,

**[42:11]** you don't actually need to make it to 140 minus your age

**[42:14]** on that final one.

**[42:15]** We just want you locked in and slightly trying.

**[42:19]** The fitter you are, the lower your heart rate needs to be,

**[42:22]** or the lower your heart rate can be essentially

**[42:25]** towards the end of that.

**[42:25]** So don't get super strict with it and feel like

**[42:28]** that you did a four or five minute,

**[42:30]** like pretty hard on the skier.

**[42:33]** We don't necessarily need that, but.

**[42:34]** So that's gonna be our sweat check.

**[42:36]** That's how we're gonna get started there.

**[42:37]** When we're talking mobility here, really upper body focused,

**[42:41]** I do think that we always need to reiterate the fact that

**[42:44]** with the way that our fascia works,

**[42:47]** that we are all one muscle.

**[42:48]** Everything is very connected.

**[42:50]** So getting your hips open is going to end up

**[42:53]** allowing you to be in the kind of position

**[42:55]** where your thoracic spine is nice and stacked.

**[42:57]** So we do wanna pay attention to the hips.

**[43:00]** Couch stretch for me,

**[43:02]** couch stretch is easy because my shins are tall.

**[43:05]** So dragon pose is a little bit better for me.

**[43:08]** So if you can get into a couch stretch really easy

**[43:11]** doing the dragon pose where the leg that is trailing,

**[43:14]** you put your arm up on the post,

**[43:16]** you can get into a really good stretch there.

**[43:19]** So we're gonna pay attention to that.

**[43:20]** We're gonna make sure that glutes and low back

**[43:23]** are just kind of along for the ride.

**[43:25]** If you have those issues in general,

**[43:27]** especially related to the dumbbell snatch,

**[43:29]** and then getting into the hollow and arch position,

**[43:32]** just make sure that you're doing your pigeon pose

**[43:35]** and smashing the glutes and that sort of thing

**[43:37]** with your mobility.

**[43:39]** And then, man, I really find, I know this is a cop out,

**[43:42]** but I find upper body mobility to be so personalized.

**[43:46]** Yeah.

**[43:47]** In what opens you up, is it your lats,

**[43:49]** is it your traps, is it your shoulders,

**[43:51]** you know, do you need to do the scat mobility?

**[43:53]** For some people, you know, going on each side

**[43:56]** with the single lacrosse ball works better.

**[43:59]** For other people, the peanut or the foam roller

**[44:02]** where you're getting into thoracic extension,

**[44:05]** that's why the test retest model is so important in this.

**[44:09]** Our test is basically, I don't know

**[44:11]** I'm gonna be able to show this right now.

**[44:12]** I can get far enough away and then you can still hear me.

**[44:14]** But we wanna be in this beautiful stacked position here

**[44:18]** with our rib cage down.

**[44:19]** And we wanna see where that range of motion is at

**[44:22]** in this position.

**[44:23]** And then we just wanna go do some tests.

**[44:25]** If you have a friend that you trust,

**[44:28]** ART is incredible for getting ready for something like this

**[44:31]** where they go down to your lats

**[44:33]** and they pinch on to the bottom and squeeze.

**[44:35]** And you gotta work through range of motion with your arm.

**[44:38]** You can do the same thing up on the traps.

**[44:40]** That was something that always had a huge effect for me.

**[44:43]** And then someone who actually knows

**[44:45]** how to wrap your shoulder with voodoo floss,

**[44:47]** that is such a game changer.

**[44:49]** That's a huge thing there,

**[44:50]** but spend the time to prove to yourself

**[44:53]** that you've made a noticeable difference.

**[44:55]** It can be cool to do the bilateral stuff

**[44:57]** and then like one arm straight up overhead

**[44:58]** and the other one looks like it's bench pressing

**[45:00]** because then you can then go do that to the other arm.

**[45:03]** But take your time.

**[45:04]** You've already gotten warm, you've already gotten sweaty.

**[45:07]** Give some love to your upper body.

**[45:09]** We don't know whether you're, you know, you're, you're jacked and your biceps pulling you

**[45:14]** forward or it's your pecs, that sort of thing.

**[45:16]** So that whole, all of it, all the way around, everything that you can think of that is basically

**[45:23]** from like mid spine up in your body should be addressed if it feels tight while you're

**[45:29]** trying to work through these things.

**[45:31]** The actual activation here, I personally don't, I personally don't do a ton of upper body

**[45:37]** activation. I just feel like there's not that many bullets in the gun when it's related to this stuff.

**[45:45]** So like, I'll make sure that I'm doing the band pull aparts. But like, I was always the person

**[45:51]** in class that was like, three, four, and then looking around 1920, like that kind of thing.

**[45:59]** Because I did notice a difference. But again, a little bit more fast twitch there. So,

**[46:03]** So the activation is just to make sure that the musculature is firing after we've done this.

**[46:09]** And then specific warmup, this is probably the easiest way to explain how I do the ascending

**[46:17]** level of difficulty and skill related to a movement.

**[46:21]** I'm doing regular old walking lunges to start. I'm doing dumbbell snatches either from the hang

**[46:27]** or with a really lightweight. I'm just going through a movement pattern.

**[46:31]** I'm not even doing pull-ups in round one.

**[46:33]** I'm probably kipping on the bar,

**[46:35]** getting a really good feel for that position.

**[46:37]** And then as I go,

**[46:39]** I'm gonna add a little bit of weight to the lunge.

**[46:41]** I'm gonna add a little bit of weight to the dumbbell snatch.

**[46:43]** I'm gonna start to do my pull-ups.

**[46:45]** Then I'm, you know, if I need a longer warmup,

**[46:47]** maybe there's a round where I'm in between

**[46:50]** chin over bar and chest to bar.

**[46:51]** And I'm just getting these really small sets

**[46:54]** and getting into the rhythm of

**[46:57]** what does all of this feel like together?

**[46:59]** What do these movements feel like in unison

**[47:02]** with one another as I go?

**[47:04]** And then eventually we'll end up making sure

**[47:07]** that the movements themselves feel really good

**[47:09]** and the muscle-ups feel really good.

**[47:11]** I personally would not prime for this at all.

**[47:13]** I don't know if you would, Paige,

**[47:15]** but this just to me doesn't have that like shoot

**[47:20]** out of the cannon kind of feel to it.

**[47:22]** No, it doesn't, but the start of any workout

**[47:26]** that makes me anxious, I'm gonna prime myself.

**[47:29]** I'm a primer until I die kind of person.

**[47:31]** So if you do get anxious, like prior to three, two, one go,

**[47:35]** get some of those nerves out with the primer.

**[47:37]** That could even be a 10 second spike on the Echo Bike.

**[47:41]** Like it doesn't need to be drastic.

**[47:44]** It could be 30 second ski or, you know,

**[47:46]** ski hard until it feels and then get off.

**[47:49]** It doesn't have to be crazy.

**[47:50]** I misspoke a little.

**[47:52]** I would go, you know, if I'm by myself

**[47:55]** and I want to be slapped in the face,

**[47:57]** a specific movement primer.

**[48:00]** I would just go get up to 1,000, 1,500, whatever, watts

**[48:04]** on a bike, that kind of thing.

**[48:06]** Just wake myself up and know that I'm

**[48:10]** going to be in a slight level of discomfort for, well,

**[48:14]** for me, seven, eight, nine minutes,

**[48:16]** however long that would take.

**[48:18]** And then I really got to be locked in mentally

**[48:21]** on the muscle ups the way that I move.

**[48:22]** Yeah, rep one probably is going to feel OK.

**[48:25]** But am I keeping my dip?

**[48:26]** Am I using my hips?

**[48:28]** Am I turning over and letting my lower half get below me?

**[48:31]** That sort of thing.

**[48:32]** So that's how we're thinking about warmup here.

**[48:34]** Strategy.

**[48:36]** I know that we've already talked about this,

**[48:37]** but for the people who are listening to the version

**[48:39]** where I cut out all of the dead air,

**[48:41]** we are gonna just kind of lay this out.

**[48:45]** The lunges and the snatches for most athletes

**[48:49]** need to be done basically unbroken

**[48:53]** with quick transitions pretty smooth.

**[48:55]** We want to make sure that we're switching arms as often as we need to, putting the dumbbell

**[49:02]** down because you want that one breath before you start to do your dumbbell snatches.

**[49:08]** That's also totally fine.

**[49:11]** But we're working our way through that stuff knowing that most people that we are competing

**[49:15]** against at our level are going to do those movements in a similar amount of time.

**[49:20]** And if that's the case, then we kind of need to follow suit.

**[49:23]** happens with a lot of workouts. Also, we haven't said it yet this year, which is crazy. Normally

**[49:30]** you have like a counter of how many times that we say it, but it's no standing around

**[49:33]** season. And you're going to feel weird if you put the dumbbell down and just wait to

**[49:37]** do something that you can do right now. The place where we make our money strategically,

**[49:42]** the place where misfits will be smarter than other athletes that don't talk about this

**[49:48]** stuff on a regular basis is the way that we break up our pulling gymnastics.
