---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390"
published: 2026-03-05
episode_number: "390"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:53"
chunk_end: "59:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390 - Chunk 6

Episode: [Open Workout 26.2: 26.1 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.390](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:53]** I want you to choose descending sets on the first two movements for sure.

**[49:59]** For the pull-ups in the chest to bar.

**[50:00]** And I want the amount of sets that you're planning to do to be more in your chest

**[50:05]** to bar than they are in your pull-ups.

**[50:07]** Right?

**[50:07]** So like even a really high level athlete, unless this is like, we're going for a

**[50:12]** world record, I want two sets in the pull-ups and I know that you're going to

**[50:16]** hate me for saying it and you're just going to jump back up anyways.

**[50:19]** You're going to jump right back up, but we are under control.

**[50:24]** We are, um, looks like I cut out there.

**[50:27]** I don't know if you guys can still hear me.

**[50:29]** Drew, I lost you.

**[50:30]** Damn.

**[50:31]** I'm back.

**[50:32]** All right.

**[50:33]** I'm going to have to run an ethernet cable out here next week, apparently.

**[50:34]** So I don't even remember what I was talking about, but basically we are having those descending

**[50:39]** sets as we go.

**[50:40]** We get into the chest to bar and we're thinking the same thing.

**[50:42]** If we did two sets there, it's okay to do three sets in the chest to bar.

**[50:46]** If we did three in the pull-ups, it's okay to do four with the chest to bar, that sort

**[50:50]** of thing.

**[50:51]** And then we're stomping the gas pedal if we're going to the end of the workout here.

**[50:55]** So that's something to keep in mind if you think you're going to get between, I would

**[50:58]** say zero and five muscle-ups somewhere kind of in that realm.

**[51:04]** With the muscle-ups, descending reps also for sure, right?

**[51:07]** Like that first set should be your biggest set.

**[51:10]** We saw with like I think Lucy probably could have done this workout again 10 20 seconds faster with a few changes

**[51:17]** We saw the that final rep where I think she might have gotten a no rep

**[51:22]** It didn't look like a no rep to me where she just kind of had to work her way through that dude

**[51:26]** we are not

**[51:28]** we are not touching that in the first set right and

**[51:32]** Pet peeve for me as a coach and I do it as an athlete which makes it kind of hilarious

**[51:36]** but the stop in the bottom of the dip

**[51:40]** on the last rep of every set,

**[51:41]** wait, and then drive the knees up

**[51:44]** to then finish your final rep.

**[51:46]** Do not do that.

**[51:48]** Don't do that in this workout.

**[51:49]** Time under tension is everything.

**[51:51]** Know while you're doing them, okay,

**[51:54]** one, two, three, I think I'm gonna stop at four.

**[51:58]** Pretend like you're gonna do five.

**[52:00]** Yeah.

**[52:01]** Will, rep 20 will thank you.

**[52:04]** You will finally do your 20th rep when you're supposed to and not later than you're supposed to.

**[52:09]** So again, do not stop and change the way that you're doing your dip in the final one.

**[52:13]** And again, this kind of thing happens when we're getting real deep into something like this.

**[52:17]** I get it, but fight it as much as possible. But whatever would end up being the wrong choice,

**[52:24]** the six muscle ups, the seven muscle ups, whatever your number is, we want to cut it short.

**[52:30]** Because it's going to make a big difference when you go in and do one to two more reps.

**[52:34]** than you would have in that next set.

**[52:36]** And we just sort of keep going down.

**[52:40]** Yeah, okay, I'll show this comment to everybody.

**[52:45]** Got scared.

**[52:45]** So again, move the way that is like you're trying to show off how beautiful your movement is.

**[52:53]** And we'll go into actual movement strategy here in a second.

**[52:57]** Paige, anything on the strategy element that I didn't talk about that's popped into your head?

**[53:03]** Not really, like, you do have to be ready for that backup plan of like, this is the

**[53:08]** plan that I'm setting out.

**[53:09]** If I start to feel shitty earlier than I thought I would, okay, I have to know what I'm going

**[53:14]** to change to.

**[53:15]** And you have to accept that, like, don't let your ego play into it of like, I'm going to

**[53:20]** force another rep, I'm going to force another rep.

**[53:22]** Don't.

**[53:23]** 20 is a deep set of muscle ups, and that's not going to pay off for you.

**[53:28]** That's like the, you know, the biggest thing that I'll say there.

**[53:30]** And again, the body language could come into play with that as well.

**[53:33]** So you saw Miram go out way hot, but her body language didn't change that much.

**[53:39]** She still did her best to finish the workout.

**[53:41]** So there is a layer of don't feel defeated if things have to change.

**[53:46]** And then the other thing I'll say about the warmup stuff is make sure the single overhead

**[53:52]** dumbbell feels good when you're walking in warmup.

**[53:54]** As you're testing movements, if there's something that feels off or you feel off balance, take

**[54:00]** extra time to make sure it feels good before you do start. Like a couple extra lunges is

**[54:04]** not going to hurt you. You just did 500 wall balls and box jump overs last week. Your legs

**[54:09]** are, you're well conditioned for that kind of stuff.

**[54:11]** Yeah. I don't think you're going to over warm up the lunge or the dumbbells notch. I don't

**[54:16]** think that's going to, I don't think that's going to happen to anybody. It is, this workout

**[54:21]** is a trap for athletes who are good at pull ups, chest to bar and muscle ups. And I'm

**[54:28]** I'm talking about, I don't know, 250th to 2000th in the world, somewhere in that range,

**[54:36]** that type of athlete.

**[54:38]** Because you're going to feel so you're basically if you push early in this workout and you're

**[54:45]** like I don't need to break these up like this is going to be a huge deal here, you're going

**[54:48]** to end up getting the exact same score as somebody who doesn't like pulling gymnastics

**[54:53]** that game this workout.

**[54:55]** You get to show off on the rings.

**[54:58]** You don't get to show off before that.

**[55:01]** It doesn't mean anything, right?

**[55:02]** Like if this workout's for time and you're anywhere from seven minutes to 12 minutes,

**[55:09]** you're falling into that range there, this is 20 ring muscle-ups for time after doing

**[55:14]** all of the other movements, setting you up to get there.

**[55:17]** You can go get that time back on the rings, especially because this is like one of the

**[55:23]** the rare stand around during the open moments that there are,

**[55:27]** you get to go show off there.

**[55:29]** So we have some pretty incredible pullers that,

**[55:33]** I mean, honestly put up some of the skill numbers.

**[55:36]** I'm like, I gotta start capping these things.

**[55:38]** When I tell you guys smooth set,

**[55:39]** cause that's too much.

**[55:41]** That's not what I'm looking for here.

**[55:42]** So again, just like we talked about with like the rower

**[55:47]** that rows at the same pace as you,

**[55:48]** but they're better than you at it.

**[55:49]** They feel better when they get off the rower

**[55:51]** at the same time as you and then can go do more, same concept.

**[55:55]** You're a better puller.

**[55:57]** You aren't going to show it until we get to the rings.

**[56:00]** And then when you get to the rings, hopefully again, you have the ATHLETE IQ to back off

**[56:05]** from like, I could do eight right now, but I'm going to do six, or I could do seven,

**[56:09]** I'm going to do five, that kind of thing.

**[56:11]** Yeah.

**[56:12]** I want to save some of that as you go, for sure.

**[56:14]** All right.

**[56:15]** Movement efficiencies.

**[56:17]** Talk about lunges.

**[56:18]** This is a very straightforward, I don't want to say easy movement, but like very opening

**[56:24]** movement with the weight that they're giving you.

**[56:28]** And Paige's nod to the way that you're moving and the way that you warmed up is probably

**[56:32]** going to have more to do with its effect on the rest of the workout than anything we say

**[56:39]** related to while you're actually going.

**[56:42]** We want your hips to be open.

**[56:44]** We want your T spine to be open.

**[56:46]** We want you walking in a way where your feet aren't so close together that you're getting

**[56:50]** that wobble, that sort of thing.

**[56:52]** We don't want to be doing these split squats because that's going to be too much of the

**[56:56]** quad.

**[56:56]** So basically you're at the bottom of the lunge, you stand up and then bring your leg forward.

**[57:01]** We want to get the weight onto that front foot so that we can use the glutes and hamstrings

**[57:05]** to kind of pull us forward.

**[57:07]** But dude, warm these up.

**[57:09]** They should feel really, really good before you go.

**[57:11]** To me, that's more important than the exact way that, oh my goodness, you're one of those

**[57:16]** people that it looks like your wrist is going to break because the dumbbell's hanging, that

**[57:20]** kind of thing.

**[57:21]** I don't think that matters as much in this workout with the weight and the rep scheme

**[57:24]** as I want to be super warm and super comfortable with the movement.

**[57:29]** So it's like an afterthought.

**[57:30]** I just go do it, get it done.

**[57:32]** Yeah.

**[57:33]** You want to be able to stay stacked.

**[57:34]** You don't want any of that low back extension happening.

**[57:37]** You want your rib cage to be able to pull down towards your belly button.

**[57:41]** the time to really roll out your lats, get around your rib cage, get into those like

**[57:46]** deeper psoas muscles if you need to.

**[57:49]** The more access you have, the better you're going to feel.

**[57:52]** Yeah, absolutely.

**[57:53]** Dumbbell snatch.

**[57:54]** We did the entire episode of the podcast where we talked about one of the lowest barriers

**[57:58]** to entry.

**[57:59]** One of the things that you need to be able to do is use your lower half in what we refer

**[58:04]** to as CrossFit-Oli.

**[58:07]** Here we go.

**[58:08]** things that we talked about are popping up in the open exactly as we thought,

**[58:11]** because they just do the same things over and over, not a, not a knock,

**[58:15]** just how the sport is and your ability to use your legs to move the dumbbell.

**[58:22]** Biggest correlation that I can, that I can have would be the kettlebell swing.

**[58:27]** Because when you do the kettlebell swing, because you send it out away from yourself,

**[58:30]** it is so obvious when you try to yank a kettlebell up in this position,

**[58:35]** but it's the exact same concept.

**[58:37]** So as we're down in that position, we really want to have the legs loaded, which typically

**[58:42]** means a little bit, it's going to depend on your proportions, but we're looking for knee

**[58:45]** bend as the basically as the dumbbell passes back in front of your hips, we want to get

**[58:51]** the legs bent there.

**[58:53]** And we just want to be in just not a compromised position.

**[58:56]** I don't want your T spine rounded over.

**[58:59]** I don't want you kind of hunched over in that bottom position, because that's also not a

**[59:03]** a place where you're able to breathe as well,

**[59:06]** instead of a place where you're telling your nervous system

**[59:08]** that you're doing all right.

**[59:09]** It's not gonna think you're doing all right

**[59:11]** if you have a C-shaped spine.

**[59:13]** So I'm not saying to like squat down in the movement.

**[59:17]** We don't wanna see that either.

**[59:18]** That's the scariest kettlebell swing of all time.

**[59:20]** The one that goes, the bell goes close to the ground.

**[59:23]** But basically as you're standing up,

**[59:25]** just like last week, we want that knee extension.

**[59:28]** Like just over and over and over,

**[59:30]** keep that bad boy close to you.

**[59:32]** don't send it out away from your body.

**[59:34]** Don't over grip it.

**[59:35]** Don't squeeze the shit out of it

**[59:37]** and not breathe as you're going.

**[59:38]** That's gonna have effects on both sides,

**[59:40]** but obviously the dumbbell snatch

**[59:41]** is a pretty straightforward thing.

**[59:43]** There's a million YouTube videos,

**[59:45]** including on our channel, related to them.

**[59:49]** Use your legs.

**[59:50]** Yeah, I mean, I would use the rower and warm up.
