---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391"
published: 2026-03-10
episode_number: "391"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:55"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning, Misfits. You were tuning into a special edition Misfit Podcast Monday, March 16th.

**[00:24]** The Misfit affiliate rush more phase brand new seven week phase gets started. And we're going to

**[00:30]** to do a deep dive into what you can expect within the phase.

**[00:34]** As always, we will jump into a little bit of housekeeping.

**[00:38]** And then if you've missed, Hunty, make sure you stay for the end of the episode where

**[00:43]** we put a little bit of life chat.

**[00:45]** What's up, Hunter?

**[00:46]** Hey, what's up?

**[00:47]** How we doing?

**[00:48]** Forgot we were doing life chat at the end.

**[00:51]** Got me nervous for a second there.

**[00:53]** Yeah, yeah, you got time.

**[00:55]** You got a little bit of time.

**[00:56]** Yeah, you're good.

**[00:57]** As always, this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[01:01]** Best supplements in the game.

**[01:03]** You know, a previous version of me would have been selling you on all of their efficacious

**[01:08]** supplements that actually work.

**[01:10]** And then the small business owner, dad slash nanny, keeps just talking about the energy

**[01:16]** drink here.

**[01:17]** So if you're a degenerate like me, there's a ton of nootropics in this energy drink.

**[01:22]** It works damn well.

**[01:24]** It makes it so that I can jump on this podcast and run my mouth for an hour or so, but they

**[01:29]** also have really good supplements, which is probably what most of you are interested in.

**[01:32]** So you can go to GorillaMine.com, forward slash Misfit, or just use the codeword Misfit

**[01:37]** at checkout.

**[01:38]** You save a little bit of money and you support Misfit athletics and the podcast, all of our

**[01:44]** program offerings, including Misfit affiliate, all of our individual programs can be found

**[01:50]** at the link in bio on our Instagram.

**[01:53]** You can get a two week free trial for all of the stuff that we're about to talk about

**[01:57]** on Sugarwad, PushPress, or Streamfit, or you can email me, coachatmissfitathletics.com,

**[02:03]** and I will give you a two week sample of the PDF, which is what you would receive if you

**[02:07]** signed up on our website.

**[02:09]** You can also head to sharpentheax.com.

**[02:12]** There are a few pieces left there.

**[02:14]** If you want to support the show, you can get some Misfit gear, maybe use the codeword page.

**[02:19]** gets a little bit of support, a little bit of dough there.

**[02:23]** Word hunting, get charged 3X shipping.

**[02:27]** Yes.

**[02:28]** Yeah, his code actually makes it worse.

**[02:31]** And this is for everybody, but also the gyms.

**[02:33]** If you guys want to communicate with us on a more regular basis, all of the emails going

**[02:38]** out related to this phase, to basically everything, if you're on our email list, has a link to

**[02:44]** get you into our free community on Telegram.

**[02:46]** So whether you're looking for, you know, chopping it up for individual programming, the GPP

**[02:51]** program, Misfit affiliate, all that stuff, make sure you get into telegram.

**[02:56]** And then the actual piece of housekeeping here, CrossFit HQ will not let people add

**[03:01]** hashtags after the close of 26.1 this year.

**[03:05]** I don't know what the deal is with that.

**[03:06]** It definitely hasn't been that way in the past.

**[03:08]** So we are kicking it old school, you guys.

**[03:10]** I have a spreadsheet going and you can enter your information.

**[03:15]** If you don't enter your name, your affiliate and your scores, I probably

**[03:20]** won't take the time to go find you on the leaderboard and do all of that stuff.

**[03:23]** I will confirm that you actually exist and that you're not lying.

**[03:27]** It'd be really weird to lie about something like that.

**[03:29]** I don't, I don't know what the motivation would be, but if you want to shout out

**[03:32]** on our live podcast, if you want to get entered into a drawing for some free

**[03:37]** gear, make sure that you fill that out.

**[03:39]** That will be sent out via email.

**[03:41]** It'll be in telegram.

**[03:42]** I'll probably post it on social media, all that good stuff.

**[03:45]** So I know we have a lot of people more on the Misfit affiliate side listening to this

**[03:49]** podcast specifically, whether you are an athlete, a coach, a gym owner.

**[03:53]** This leaderboard is a community thing.

**[03:56]** So if you follow any version of our program and want to be on there, please put your name

**[04:02]** in.

**[04:03]** Don't worry about what your scores actually are.

**[04:04]** All right.

**[04:05]** So we have again, this seven week phase and I decided to name it Rushmore for a few different

**[04:14]** We are doing one benchmark every single week during this seven week phase.

**[04:20]** And it made me think of the difference between testing things like open workouts,

**[04:25]** which honestly feel like you snap your fingers and they come and go.

**[04:29]** And it's, it happens, but it's rare that we're going to repeat them, you know, more than that second time.

**[04:35]** So the idea of the permanence of these benchmarks, like they're always there.

**[04:40]** Those workouts are always there all the way back to you know

**[04:43]** Your classics your Fran your Helen workouts like that all the way up to the new ones like I know

**[04:49]** Gretel is is in this phase isn't it Hunter that one's a real doozy

**[04:53]** Yeah, so just the idea of the permanence of the workouts is something we can always go back to and we have our

**[05:00]** Benchmarks, you know in the in the more general fitness community your one-mile run or your 400 meter run or your 2k row

**[05:07]** but there's something special about, you know,

**[05:09]** our versions of that as a CrossFit community.

**[05:12]** And honestly, it's cool to see the progression of them

**[05:15]** and how they've changed.

**[05:16]** You think about something like a Fran,

**[05:18]** and it just was like, there was an alchemy to it

**[05:21]** of like, why is this so bad back in the day?

**[05:24]** And now it's like, can you yank the bar back down

**[05:27]** into your front rack to shave, you know,

**[05:30]** six seconds off your Fran time?

**[05:32]** We had this conversation when someone asked

**[05:34]** if there should be an updated version of Penny,

**[05:36]** pennies because 15 years later, whatever it is, it's not the same kind of challenge.

**[05:44]** But the idea now that it's how fast can you run and still be unbroken is this amazing

**[05:51]** story.

**[05:52]** Like if I was going to rewrite it, I would write a different workout, like a completely

**[05:55]** different workout.

**[05:56]** I think it's been maybe an overemphasis on the muscle up in the sport.

**[06:00]** So I would probably choose if I was going to do like a nasty monostructural gymnastics

**[06:06]** weightlifting.

**[06:07]** I would probably just write a different workout.

**[06:09]** So maybe I will do that and we'll add it in.

**[06:12]** But the idea of like, can you go out there and run, you know, minute 20, minute 25, 400s

**[06:19]** while you're doing something like this is absolutely disgusting.

**[06:23]** And then there's...

**[06:24]** And there's almost a sultans, and they said that.

**[06:25]** I'm sure this time...

**[06:26]** I listen I a

**[06:28]** Talked about you when the person who said wait

**[06:32]** So is there is this is there a real story to this someone say it was too like the pennies

**[06:36]** No, I don't know if I teated up. I don't remember

**[06:42]** Oh, no, someone someone guessed that pennies was 26.2. Mm-hmm

**[06:47]** It was like that would be sweet. I would be sick

**[06:50]** But it was like, okay, and I talked about the progression

**[06:54]** and how it's a completely different workout now

**[06:57]** than it was in 2011, right?

**[06:59]** And so they were like, okay, so should it be updated?

**[07:03]** Like, what do you think?

**[07:04]** And it was like, no, that's what's awesome about this.

**[07:08]** That's what was awesome about Helen at the Games.

**[07:10]** It's like, let's see where those margins are really at.

**[07:14]** And I did always bring up Hunter's secret strategy

**[07:18]** strategy for Austin. Have you tried trying harder? To which Austin?

**[07:22]** I had to tell Mark to fucking do that in order to open the door to the gym. Austin,

**[07:26]** that blew Austin's fucking brain out the back of his skull.

**[07:29]** It did.

**[07:30]** I don't know if he's recovered.

**[07:32]** No, I don't think he has. I don't think he has. Also, the idea of what is your Mount

**[07:38]** Rushmore? What is the specific athletes? There's seven benchmarks that are going to be in here.

**[07:44]** Which four of them is the athlete locked in on?

**[07:47]** And are they locked in on them because they're like,

**[07:50]** shit, I'm gonna die or hell yeah,

**[07:52]** I'm gonna be like at the top of the leaderboard.

**[07:55]** Because I think what's cool about what we do is you have,

**[08:01]** 100 to 200 to 300 people looking at this workout

**[08:04]** within your gym and they all feel different

**[08:08]** about what it is.

**[08:09]** It's a completely different experience

**[08:11]** for all of those people.

**[08:12]** There's gotta be a meathead out there

**[08:14]** circle and cross bit total. It's like, listen, I might be one in six across these seven weeks,

**[08:21]** but I'm taking my victory. And then we obviously have things that are built in there that are

**[08:27]** the exact opposite. And last but not least, the anecdote for passing through the open, again,

**[08:35]** it just is the snap of a finger. You train 40 some weeks out of the year, and then three weeks,

**[08:42]** you've got your open and then it's gone. And it often lights a little fire for certain people

**[08:48]** while they're doing it. They're like, damn, I could train a little bit harder next year. I

**[08:54]** could make sure that I show up on the days that we're doing the things that I don't like and

**[08:58]** actually be better. And the anecdote to that isn't some secret sauce. It's short, medium, long,

**[09:05]** couplets, triplets, high intensity. That's what it is. Obviously, we need to get stronger. We need

**[09:11]** to get more skilled, but GPP is what raises all of that stuff up together. So I think GPP,

**[09:19]** like I need a fourth letter, Mount Rushmore is just GPP. You can put the categories up there

**[09:25]** if you want. It's monostructural gymnastics, weightlifting, whatever.

**[09:28]** GPP tech. I go to GPP tech.

**[09:31]** Yes, GPP tech. So that's where the name came from. I have a fun little AI created graphic for who's

**[09:39]** on the Rushmore. So you guys get a little teaser for when the advertisement drops. So

**[09:45]** yeah, before we get into it, I don't know if you guys have any comments related to that.

**[09:49]** That's obviously my world of spinning some yarn and getting people excited about what

**[09:54]** we're about to do.
