---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391"
published: 2026-03-10
episode_number: "391"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:55"
chunk_end: "19:50"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391 - Chunk 2

Episode: [RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:55]** I think the, like, I thought the Rushmore name idea was super cool. It's honestly like

**[10:01]** I've kind of thought about this a little bit with the open, that being just this time of

**[10:05]** year where it's like you push you you encourage people for a number of reasons you encourage

**[10:10]** people to do the open one of which like me I'm less of a like but it's so much fun guys

**[10:17]** you're gonna have like the best time ever sort of thing it's like I don't give a fuck

**[10:20]** about that I want you to have like that's what you were thinking so it's good yeah I

**[10:24]** definitely it's so much fun it's such a no it is fun it's type two fun obviously for

**[10:29]** for sure. But it's more like, you know, we, we use benchmarks and we use essentially

**[10:35]** for like, for the general population that is like non semi finals and CrossFit Games

**[10:41]** athletes, the open and our benchmarks are the rush moors, right? Those are the things

**[10:47]** that we have to measure, like kind of that low trajectory to a distant horizon concept

**[10:52]** off of like, am I actually getting stronger fit or, you know, the one rep maxes are, are

**[10:57]** a little bit more obvious, but for athletes, it's like, we used to do programming where

**[11:02]** it was like, you know, we do a conditioning test in week one, and then we repeat it in

**[11:06]** week seven. And like, we didn't actually like, it's not that we didn't train for it, but

**[11:11]** we didn't like you can get better at a thing just by read because you know how to do it.

**[11:16]** The real question is like, did you get better at the thing like over a long enough period

**[11:21]** of time such that it's obvious that your GPP has gotten better.

**[11:25]** It wasn't just like, Oh, I just did a better strategy seven weeks later, because realistically,

**[11:31]** unless you're pretty new to CrossFit, you're not going to make wildly massive progress

**[11:37]** across seven weeks in a 15 minute AMRAP.

**[11:42]** It's just not going to happen.

**[11:44]** Maybe a year or so, you could see some significant change from a physiological perspective, but

**[11:50]** in a short period of time, it's more like, are you just a little bit smarter than last

**[11:54]** time?

**[11:55]** The benchmarks and like part of the reason we kind of did away with that, like test week

**[12:00]** one retest week seven with a very specific like conditioning piece is because like I

**[12:06]** would rather sprinkle these benchmarks in throughout the year.

**[12:09]** And maybe we start to think about including things like old open workouts as benchmarks

**[12:14]** because eventually like benchmarks do age and some of them aren't as relevant as they

**[12:18]** used to be, but there are plenty of them that are like, perfectly relevant. And maybe benchmarks

**[12:24]** that were out of out of, you know, pennies is a perfect example, right? It's like, when

**[12:29]** that got written 10 years ago, or whatever, it was like, I mean, I put up a 17 minute

**[12:34]** time, it's like, you should have scaled, you probably should have scaled that, you know,

**[12:37]** by by good affiliate standards. But like, over time, that time got kept coming down,

**[12:44]** coming down until it was like actually appropriate. And for a lot of affiliate athletes, it is like,

**[12:49]** that's Fran. It's like, yeah, I just wasn't physically strong enough to do 45 thrusters at

**[12:55]** 95 pounds. So it wasn't even relevant for me at the beginning. But now that I've been doing this

**[12:59]** for three or four years, like, now Fran is that really shitty workout for me, that it was for a

**[13:06]** Games athlete 10 years ago, right? And now like you said, you got like, Trista Smith doing weapons

**[13:12]** grade Fran and whatever she, you know, a minute and change. And it's like, it's like, it's

**[13:18]** a different thing for different people now. But the, the kind of theme remains the same,

**[13:22]** right? It's like, you have to have these fixed, these goalposts that don't move, that instead

**[13:28]** you kind of move around them. So I think it's a good, good name for the phase. And I think

**[13:32]** that's like, I think it'll be a fun phase for people. And a lot of these benchmarks

**[13:36]** are honestly like probably going to be the first time people have done these as well.

**[13:40]** getting like a time on the board for a benchmark that can be retested later on.

**[13:45]** Yeah.

**[13:46]** Like I'm going to do workouts that I've never done before, which would be kind of cool.

**[13:50]** Yeah.

**[13:51]** I kind of like the perspective too of like you do an open repeat workout and you see,

**[13:57]** okay, I was 55th percentile in 2017 and all of a sudden I'm 88th percentile in 2024.

**[14:06]** You can also see it obviously, you know,

**[14:08]** comparing to other people, but you know,

**[14:10]** if you're going from such a low percentage in the world

**[14:13]** to such a high percentage,

**[14:14]** I think that's also relevant to your level of fitness

**[14:17]** that you are getting much better.

**[14:18]** And if you can kind of take that perspective

**[14:20]** into these benchmarks,

**[14:23]** I think that like mentally gives you something

**[14:26]** to like reach towards,

**[14:27]** cause obviously the open is like,

**[14:29]** you put all the hype around it.

**[14:31]** People want to see themselves on the leaderboard

**[14:33]** and don't always feel the same way about a benchmark on a random Tuesday.

**[14:40]** You know, but like I really like the idea of not repeating at the end of the phase and having more time in between them because you do see that GPP really come into play of like, wow, I really have gotten fitter.

**[14:53]** So I kind of I do like the idea of that with this phase.

**[14:56]** I think kind of that for that exact reason page is like a good reason that benchmarks done like

**[15:03]** Further apart is valuable because it's like the open does like everybody's got that the one lift for like man

**[15:11]** That one day it all came together and I've never hit that one retmax ever since then and it was like maybe it was in a

**[15:17]** Competition maybe the it was just the environment the adrenaline was there

**[15:20]** It was in the open or whatever and like you've never been able to replicate that. It's like

**[15:24]** That's not a great indicator of your overall average fitness.

**[15:30]** A great indicator of your overall average fitness is when Gretel is on a random Thursday

**[15:36]** and it's like, can you beat your old time?

**[15:39]** When maybe it's not like, I don't need you to get amped up on 500 milligrams of caffeine

**[15:46]** before every single CrossFit workout.

**[15:48]** That's not the point, right?

**[15:49]** Yeah.

**[15:50]** I know you're saying that.

**[15:51]** It's like, can you come in?

**[15:53]** I think that's a better indicator of my fitness.

**[15:56]** Did I come in?

**[15:56]** I do my normal thing.

**[15:58]** It's Thursday and I happen to get faster.

**[16:00]** It's like, oh sick, you didn't need that crazy adrenaline, the person that you're racing.

**[16:05]** It's like, you didn't need that because your fitness level has legitimately gone up.

**[16:10]** It wasn't like, yeah, I kind of half dast it a year ago.

**[16:13]** And this year I had the eight cups of coffee, my best friend racing against me.

**[16:18]** I decided to set my hair on fire.

**[16:20]** It's like, those are almost two different things.

**[16:22]** Like, coming on Tuesday, did you beat your time?

**[16:25]** Like, great, you're fitter.

**[16:27]** Context is everything in this conversation

**[16:30]** because I swim in the waters of the competitive world

**[16:36]** so much that I have to remind myself

**[16:39]** that the reason we retest so close together as competitors

**[16:42]** is athlete IQ more than anything.

**[16:45]** Like, you're figuring these things out,

**[16:47]** and of course you can make more progress

**[16:50]** over nine weeks when you're doing three or four pieces a day,

**[16:54]** something like that.

**[16:54]** But still at the same time,

**[16:56]** it's very much for that reason,

**[16:58]** which is why I love phase zero so much

**[17:01]** because there is that full year to come back around

**[17:04]** and we get these narratives of things

**[17:07]** maybe didn't go exactly the way that we wanted to

**[17:09]** or I had an injury that took me out for a period of time

**[17:14]** or whatever it is and then we come back around

**[17:16]** and Telegram is just PR, PR, PR on all of these things.

**[17:21]** And it helps set people up to know like,

**[17:23]** hey, the body of work is this whole year

**[17:26]** or maybe even two years or three years or four years,

**[17:30]** however long you've been with us.

**[17:31]** And that's the amount of time that it really takes

**[17:34]** to make these changes.

**[17:35]** And at the affiliate level,

**[17:36]** we have to remember what we're trying to accomplish here.

**[17:40]** Right?

**[17:41]** Like we are trying to make sure that this person

**[17:44]** is making physiological changes

**[17:47]** where they can do what they wanna do when they get older,

**[17:49]** where their blood markers change,

**[17:51]** where they get the sense of community

**[17:54]** that a human being needs by showing up.

**[17:56]** And I think in the realm of the open

**[17:59]** and quarterfinals happening within a gym,

**[18:02]** I don't wanna say that we forget it

**[18:04]** because some people really are bought into that,

**[18:06]** but we need these reminders.

**[18:08]** We need the reminders of like,

**[18:10]** we know how to get people fitter

**[18:12]** We don't always have to sell like a gimmicky shiny object to get them fitter.

**[18:18]** She's got to coach well and write good workouts and make sure people

**[18:22]** show up and go hard, basically.

**[18:24]** Yeah, for sure.

**[18:26]** All right.

**[18:26]** Let's talk about the heavy days within this phase.

**[18:29]** So if you are new to Misfit affiliate or considering joining, you are going to

**[18:35]** see essentially a lift only day every other week and the majority of our lift

**[18:41]** only days are pretty standard percentage work. And like sometimes we've got some tricks of the

**[18:49]** trade where like, for instance, I think the first deadlift day has maybe some built in warm up to

**[18:56]** it, right? Like we know that we can get some sets in there that actually force people to prepare.

**[19:02]** And I'm not saying that they're not working sets, but they're not like the whole point of the session.

**[19:08]** But if somebody goes in and does what is 11 at 50, 11 reps at 50%, something like that,

**[19:14]** you can get pretty warm, right? Like we're going to get warmed up, we're going to start moving the

**[19:17]** way that we want to. So that is going to be every other week. And then the in between weeks,

**[19:23]** there are going to be GPP lifts before conditioning. And GPP again, I don't know if we

**[19:29]** need a different term, I wonder how many people Google it every time we talk, general physical

**[19:34]** preparedness, you know, all of it, the whole thing, the strength, the endurance, the skill,

**[19:40]** just we want all of it to rise up together.

**[19:42]** If you're in CrossFit, if you're listening to a CrossFit podcast, you know what GPP is,

**[19:46]** got to go back to some of the original texts and read.

**[19:49]** Yes, it's true.

**[19:49]** Do a little reading.
