---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391"
published: 2026-03-10
episode_number: "391"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:42"
chunk_end: "59:40"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391 - Chunk 6

Episode: [RUSHMORE: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.391](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:42]** It's time for stimulus.

**[49:44]** This is the time to go do that.

**[49:46]** I just think that being able to sell to your members, show up, buy into the concept, go

**[49:51]** hard and the fittest version of you will appear out the other side.

**[49:55]** Being able to convince your athletes to do that for seven weeks is incredibly important

**[50:00]** because at the end of the day, like Hunter said at the beginning, if we zoom way out,

**[50:05]** that's the only thing that we're doing.

**[50:07]** Right?

**[50:08]** Like we want to get you guys excited about different phases and, you know, getting your

**[50:12]** strict pull ups better and your handstand push ups and your one right max deadlift.

**[50:15]** That stuff is fun, but it's kind of a carrot that we're dangling a little bit.

**[50:20]** Whereas with this one, it's like this is about as good as it gets with just raw fitness.

**[50:26]** So sell it.

**[50:27]** like take the time to talk to your members about it, sell it a little bit.

**[50:31]** And I think the benchmarks definitely help.

**[50:33]** That's like a fun thing to kind of hang your hat on.

**[50:36]** But it's just, again, like I said, a program within a program, another version of the same

**[50:40]** thing, of it's short, medium, and long, and some of them have bodyweight movements and

**[50:45]** weighted movements and all the good stuff.

**[50:47]** So.

**[50:48]** Yeah, and I think like right on the heels of the open is always a good time.

**[50:51]** That's a good avenue for conversation with athletes who in particular like care about

**[50:57]** Not even necessarily their performance in the open, but their improvements in fitness

**[51:02]** overall.

**[51:02]** Like, I don't know about you, Paige, I'm sure, but we had like, you know, this last open workout

**[51:07]** 26.2 is like, I had a conversation with a member who was like, man, I really hope I

**[51:12]** can get like a muscle up in, you know, because it can move me up the leaderboard so far.

**[51:17]** And it's like, you're right, for sure.

**[51:21]** Are you going to get there?

**[51:22]** Like, do we even need to worry about it?

**[51:24]** Right?

**[51:25]** to get through, you got to get through a dumbbell that's like a little bit heavy for you. Like,

**[51:30]** if we're, if we can't if we don't have a muscle up that that does say something about gymnastics

**[51:35]** capacity, right gymnastics pulling capacity, maybe there's other elements at play here

**[51:40]** as well. Like, you know, it's the opens always that time. It's like, I hope we get I hope

**[51:45]** we get this because it's like nobody ever said man, I hope we get 100 bar facing burpees

**[51:50]** in this next Metcon. I really hope they just fuck us up with a lot of burpees. It's always,

**[51:57]** I hope to see this sexy gymnastics movement that I really want to get. I want to see this

**[52:02]** heavy barbell or I want to be able to max out a lift or something like that. And every

**[52:07]** year it's always like, oh yeah, you get your muscle ups, you just have to get there first.

**[52:14]** Then when they don't get there, their tie break time is like 14 minutes and it's like,

**[52:20]** I understand why you want to get these sexy movements and stuff, but it's like, it's the

**[52:25]** GPP that's going to move the needle for you there.

**[52:27]** And it's like, you need to get fitter in order to like gain access to the movements, to the

**[52:33]** sexy stuff.

**[52:34]** So I think that's a good route that you could take if you've got athletes who are, you know,

**[52:39]** think about things in terms of performance, whether it's the open or otherwise.

**[52:44]** And then, you know, internally, as far as like understanding the broader like idea with

**[52:50]** your coaching staff, or and even members in total, it's like, if every single person at

**[52:57]** a CrossFit gym was highly committed to coming three days on one day off, two day on one

**[53:03]** day off, and they were going to show up early, they were going to warm up, they were going

**[53:06]** to floss their hips, they're going to floss their knees, shoulders, like do all the things

**[53:10]** that they need to do, they're never going to miss a day.

**[53:13]** And it might make more sense to have a program that looks more like a Misfit Athletics competitor

**[53:19]** program, right?

**[53:20]** Where it's like, we are going to be consistent about snatching on Monday, squatting on Tuesday,

**[53:24]** gymnastic shit on Wednesday, whatever it is, and there's more consistency.

**[53:28]** The problem is, is like, that does not apply to most people in most situations, right?

**[53:34]** It's like, yeah, like the kid was up super late and I didn't get to the gym yesterday.

**[53:39]** It's like, okay, well, you sprinkle enough of those

**[53:42]** throughout over the course of a week or a month or whatnot.

**[53:45]** And it's like all of a sudden,

**[53:46]** this beautifully structured program

**[53:49]** that makes total sense on paper,

**[53:51]** it's actually just not really moving the needle

**[53:52]** very much for you in reality.

**[53:54]** GPP is like, provides that a little bit of that flexibility

**[53:59]** that, you know, the 99% of us need in the program

**[54:02]** where it's like, okay, it's not the end of the world

**[54:05]** if I miss this day, because like, again,

**[54:07]** the entirety of the program is built to improve my overall

**[54:11]** fitness, not like this one very niche part of my fitness. So

**[54:16]** being able to communicate that to your coaches and members and

**[54:19]** say like, Hey, I know you say you want to like get this thing,

**[54:22]** but it's like, you show up to class three, four days a week,

**[54:27]** it's like, you're not going to get the thing with that kind of

**[54:29]** commitment. It's like, I want the I want the thing. I just

**[54:31]** don't want the work to get there. I want to be a CrossFit

**[54:33]** Games athlete, but like, man, I'm just not going to work out

**[54:36]** for two hours a day.

**[54:39]** OK, like, good luck.

**[54:40]** Like, not going to be a CrossFit Games athlete.

**[54:42]** You can't have one without the other.

**[54:44]** So just communicating to athletes,

**[54:45]** like, hey, what the value in that GPP style of training

**[54:49]** is, and reminding people what they're actually

**[54:52]** doing in the gym, which is improving your fitness.

**[54:56]** It's not improving your one rep max snatch or muscle ups.

**[54:59]** It's like, let's get fitter.

**[55:01]** Those little things will come along for the ride

**[55:04]** once they're ready.

**[55:05]** Yeah, kind of to piggyback off that too, like I started remote coaching for Misfit on the

**[55:12]** competitive side back in 2020, 2021.

**[55:16]** Sounds right.

**[55:17]** Yeah.

**[55:18]** And then, so like we would do meetings, you know, for each phase and, you know, try to

**[55:24]** dive deep into it.

**[55:25]** But like, until I had started learning the programming and learning how you guys, you

**[55:31]** know, program and structure things like that was when I could start actually like communicating

**[55:36]** better to my athletes as to why we're doing this or why you're doing that or you know

**[55:40]** why this fits here and this fits there.

**[55:42]** So like as you know, the head coach at your affiliate or you know, the owner like if you

**[55:47]** can take the time to really look into the affiliate programming and why the structure

**[55:52]** is the way that it is or you know, really take the time to listen to the podcast like

**[55:57]** that will just make the communication to your coaches or to your athletes just that much

**[56:02]** better. And also shows like that level of investment, again, in believing in what you're

**[56:06]** doing and being able to, you know, I guess represent, you know, your affiliate in a better

**[56:12]** way.

**[56:13]** I had a conversation with a newer gym on the Misfit affiliate program, CrossFit Falcon

**[56:18]** View in Colorado Springs. And the kind of conversation where you like feel like you're

**[56:24]** talking to your people is always fun as a coach. And I got this sense that they really

**[56:30]** understood what we were doing, what we were trying to do, the directions that we take

**[56:35]** with Misfit Affiliate. And then I've joked a little bit with Hunter and Kyle. Shout out Jess.

**[56:42]** Jess basically reads the whole program like you just said, Paige, so that she can figure

**[56:47]** out whether she's got questions. Again, she knows how to coach the class. She knows how to

**[56:52]** sell the overall thing. And that's just, it's exciting to see that. And that's something that

**[56:56]** you can do. You can take the extra time. It doesn't take as long as you would think. You

**[57:01]** can start to see the patterns. And again, you can formulate questions. You can get ideas of like,

**[57:06]** how am I going to run this class? Or should I go into Telegram or shoot an email to the team,

**[57:12]** that sort of thing. So it's cool that you've had that experience page. And I think other people

**[57:17]** could learn from just kind of digging in a little bit deeper.

**[57:23]** And then I have to mention Hunter,

**[57:25]** Paige and I have been just the amount of GPP propaganda

**[57:29]** we've been slinging for the last like six podcast episodes.

**[57:34]** We've been going deep.

**[57:36]** And we wanted, I wanted for sure.

**[57:38]** I know it's complicated with Paige

**[57:41]** because she has to do the workouts as well.

**[57:42]** But I really wanted 26.1 to be something like what it was.

**[57:47]** It's really congratulations.

**[57:49]** You got a handstand pushup.

**[57:50]** Don't fucking need it.

**[57:52]** You need to be so incredibly fit and efficient in the way that you move.

**[57:58]** You got to be able to, you know, breathe and remain calm and just this

**[58:01]** real basic level of, and then I love that.

**[58:06]** The leaderboard is still very similar in workouts like that because it shows you.

**[58:11]** You know, your ability to go do 10 muscle ups at, you know, minute five or six and 26.2

**[58:19]** has way more to do with your GPP than it has anything to do with ring work, right?

**[58:25]** Yeah.

**[58:26]** Yeah.

**[58:27]** So that just, it's been fun to have that there.

**[58:30]** And we just started early with the propaganda to be like, we're going to be able to say,

**[58:36]** I told you so.

**[58:37]** And it's going to be exciting.

**[58:38]** And then we have been able to, which is great.

**[58:40]** I think 26.2 was that I didn't love 26.1, I'll be honest, from a programming perspective.

**[58:48]** I thought 26.2, part of it was just like, this is not very much fun.

**[58:52]** But 26.2, I think your point is like, that's the perfect point.

**[58:57]** It's like, how many, is there an athlete out there who gets through the, gets to the muscle

**[59:03]** ups in six and a half minutes and then doesn't do, doesn't subsequently do the 20 muscle

**[59:10]** ups in two to three minutes.

**[59:11]** It's like, yeah, I just blasted through everything else and I just couldn't do my 20 muscle ups

**[59:16]** in the remaining like seven or eight minutes.

**[59:18]** Like that, I'm sure that person is out there somewhere, but there's not that many of you.

**[59:23]** It's like, it's like either my tiebreak time was 13 minutes and change and like maybe I

**[59:28]** I get over the rings or it was like, oh, it was, it was faster than that.

**[59:33]** And I got, you know, I finished the workout.

**[59:36]** It's like the crossover of I did it in seven minutes.
