---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "WANJIRU: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.378"
published: 2025-12-02
episode_number: "378"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "10:00"
topics: ["Open", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Nutrition"]
---

# WANJIRU: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.378 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|WANJIRU: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.378]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into a special edition Misfit Podcast Monday,

**[00:23]** December 8th, the Misfit affiliate,

**[00:26]** Wanjiru phase gets started.

**[00:29]** You can head to teamisfit.com,

**[00:31]** click on the Sign Up Now button,

**[00:32]** get two weeks for free at Sugarwad,

**[00:35]** StreamFit, or Push Press.

**[00:37]** We're gonna take a deep dive into what the phase is all about,

**[00:40]** talk about some of the progressions

**[00:42]** from one phase to another.

**[00:44]** And we mention it each time we do this podcast,

**[00:47]** but I think it's important to say that

**[00:49]** this is very much a narrative builder

**[00:52]** for your gym.

**[00:54]** And so if this is coaches listening to this

**[00:55]** or members listening to this,

**[00:57]** rallying behind and around a concept

**[01:00]** can be really powerful within a gym.

**[01:02]** And then it's a little bit of an audition for us.

**[01:04]** We're gonna talk through how we think about programming,

**[01:06]** how we think about coaching these movements

**[01:08]** in an affiliate setting for those gyms

**[01:10]** that are looking to make the switch.

**[01:12]** And again, you can get started for two weeks for free.

**[01:15]** We're gonna do this episode a little bit different.

**[01:18]** We're gonna do housekeeping.

**[01:19]** Then we are going to talk about the phase

**[01:22]** and then we are going to do life chat with some special extras at the end of the podcast,

**[01:28]** partially because I have a new co-host next week.

**[01:32]** Don't worry, guys, I'll try to bribe Hunter as much as possible to get him in on some

**[01:37]** affiliate stuff, but if you've been listening to the podcast recently or maybe haven't been

**[01:42]** living under a rock, Hunter has taken over as the owner of Misfit Jim Portland and I

**[01:48]** I am coming to you from what looks like an empty room in Colorado.

**[01:53]** So housekeeping, let's talk about a little bit of housekeeping here.

**[01:56]** One thing that we should try to ramp up and it's on us and it's on the affiliates and

**[02:02]** it's on new affiliates getting signed up, but as the chatter in the affiliate channel

**[02:07]** of the Telegram, would love to see more people in there.

**[02:10]** And I'm going to set some reminders to do maybe some weekly prompts and just check in

**[02:15]** on people, but always good to sort of talk with other coaches, to talk with other people

**[02:21]** that are doing the program, coaching the program, all that good stuff.

**[02:23]** A lot of times the questions that I get via email or kind of FAQs, the kind of thing that

**[02:28]** could be helpful for you to ask in the telegram and have more people see the answer to the

**[02:33]** second thing I extended the early bird pricing for camp at CrossFit roots in Boulder, Colorado,

**[02:41]** January 30th through February 1st because I did not want to mix it in with all the promotion

**[02:47]** for Black Friday stuff and clothing collections and whatnot.

**[02:51]** So you're going to see some content this week related to camp.

**[02:55]** You can get signed up at the link in bio on our Instagram.

**[02:58]** Again, Boulder, Colorado CrossFit Roots, January 30th through February 1st.

**[03:03]** This is the probably the best place that you can go if you want to make a connection between

**[03:11]** our programming and our coaching style.

**[03:13]** You're going to get a firsthand look at how we coach things, how we break things out.

**[03:18]** And while you don't get, you know, 20, 30, 40, 60 minutes in an affiliate class to do

**[03:24]** things when we do those longer breakouts at camp, what's really cool is as a coach, you

**[03:29]** get a lot of ideas for the ways that you can do your little group breakouts, the way that

**[03:34]** you can explain workouts, the way that you can explain warmups, things of that nature.

**[03:39]** And then we have a Q and a and you know, we're always just kind of around, um, during the

**[03:44]** break.

**[03:45]** So if you guys have questions, um, I think it's a really fantastic place, um, for coaches

**[03:50]** as well as athletes.

**[03:51]** So make sure you get signed up here in the next three or four days.

**[03:55]** Um, actually I think it's the fifth.

**[03:57]** I think I have it set for Friday.

**[03:58]** So make sure you get signed up.

**[04:00]** You can get signed up after that, but you're going to have to give us an extra 50 bucks

**[04:02]** because if we add people sort of at the last minute, we have to potentially make some changes

**[04:06]** to our coaching staff.

**[04:07]** So we like to know what's going on there.

**[04:10]** And if you're looking for our individual programming, you can obviously head to the link and buy

**[04:14]** on Instagram as well and get signed up on Fitter or Strivee.

**[04:17]** Last but not least, this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[04:21]** It's my favorite place to get supplements moving and driving and all that has been sponsored

**[04:27]** by maybe a few too many of these Gorilla Mind energy drinks.

**[04:31]** But if you look at the ingredients in them, basically you're mixing a couple of cups of

**[04:36]** coffee with some really powerful nootropics, the kind of thing that you would have to pay

**[04:41]** quite a bit for in pill form.

**[04:43]** So you can head to gorillamind.com, use the code word misfit, or you can go to gorillamind.com

**[04:47]** forward slash misfit.

**[04:48]** And again, thank you to everybody who's been buying so far.

**[04:51]** I mean, I would love to hear what you guys think of the products.

**[04:53]** All right, Hunter Wenjiru.

**[04:56]** I am going to bury the lead a little bit here and not say why I named it this because I

**[05:02]** I would like a live reaction to what you thought

**[05:05]** of Sammy Wingero at the, I believe, 2010 Chicago Marathon.

**[05:11]** What did you see when I sent you that?

**[05:14]** Yeah, well, the three and a half minute video

**[05:17]** that kind of gave a brief overview of Sammy,

**[05:21]** his, like, the 22nd version of his history,

**[05:24]** and then kind of skipped to the end of the race.

**[05:27]** Who was he racing at the end, do you remember?

**[05:30]** I don't remember, no.

**[05:31]** Yeah, one of the like- The favorite in the race.

**[05:33]** The favorite fellow like Kenyan rival,

**[05:37]** peer sort of thing.

**[05:38]** And they just kind of like tailed him

**[05:40]** at the end of the race where they basically got super close.

**[05:43]** One pulled ahead, one pulled behind,

**[05:45]** then one would leave the other a hundred meters

**[05:47]** and behind them and whatever.

**[05:48]** Ended up, Sammy ended up coming back and winning.

**[05:51]** But I was saying before,

**[05:52]** watching that takes like 12 layers of imagination

**[05:57]** to even like consider fathoming what was occurring

**[06:01]** because at the end of the race,

**[06:03]** he came in at 206, I believe, two hours and six minutes.

**[06:07]** So just like, okay, layer number one of imagination,

**[06:11]** a two hour and six minute marathon.

**[06:13]** Okay, I can't even fathom that.

**[06:15]** Let's next layer.

**[06:16]** Okay, well that's a four minute and 48 second mile average

**[06:21]** for over two hours.

**[06:22]** Like, okay, I can't fathom what a single mile

**[06:25]** that pace is like, okay, can you fathom a one minute and 10 second 400 meter run?

**[06:31]** And then it's like, okay, holy fuck.

**[06:33]** That's an aggressive pace for a lot of people that's still faster than their best ever 400.

**[06:39]** And these guys are running it for two hours straight.

**[06:43]** Okay, I can kind of fathom that.

**[06:46]** Now try to fathom running at that pace, having run at that pace for two previous hours.

**[06:52]** Now you're at the end of a two hour CrossFit Metcon

**[06:57]** and like victory is you having to go faster

**[07:01]** for the last, I don't know, I'm curious to actually know

**[07:04]** when they kind of started that back and forth

**[07:06]** because it wasn't like the last 200 meters, right?

**[07:09]** It's like the last half a mile, last mile maybe.

**[07:12]** Really big push with 400 meters to go,

**[07:15]** but if you look at their pace and the timing,

**[07:18]** we were watching roughly 1200 meters.

**[07:21]** Yeah, so you are now watching after having run

**[07:25]** at an unfathomable pace for an unfathomable amount of time.

**[07:30]** And now we're watching these two like literally

**[07:33]** change gears at what is 47th gear for all of us peasants.

**[07:38]** Right? It's like at a near sprint pace,

**[07:40]** these guys are fluctuating their pace.

**[07:42]** You know, it's like, okay, now I'm running at a 105.

**[07:44]** Now I'm running at a 102.

**[07:45]** Now I'm back to a 115.

**[07:47]** Cause like I got, I'm behind a hundred meters

**[07:50]** and just the ability, like the energy system capacity.

**[07:53]** And we're obviously talking about world-class,

**[07:56]** marathon, super sport-specific athletes.

**[07:58]** But like, again, trying to fathom how those guys

**[08:02]** are able to do that mentally and physically

**[08:04]** was just, is just fucking mind-numbing.

**[08:06]** It's like, it's hard enough to try to race somebody

**[08:08]** the last 200 meters of your sad 15-minute AMRAP,

**[08:13]** you know, to come in the door and get a couple of pride points

**[08:16]** on the whiteboard, let alone,

**[08:18]** This is an Olympic race with all kinds of like crazy

**[08:22]** background and history and injuries and comebacks

**[08:24]** and stuff like that, all to be like, you know,

**[08:27]** finished in the last three minute, you know, it turns,

**[08:30]** what started as a two hour and six minute race

**[08:33]** turned into a three minute race at that pace.

**[08:37]** It's just like, good fucking gravy.

**[08:39]** It's hard to know, but it felt like he was messing

**[08:41]** with him a little bit before his big push,

**[08:44]** Cause he would, cause Sammy looks bad, his body language

**[08:48]** throughout that video, especially for the first half

**[08:50]** of the video, the first like 90 seconds,

**[08:52]** he's in rough shape.

**[08:54]** He-

**[08:55]** Should throw this clip in the like-

**[08:55]** Classically.

**[08:56]** So people can-

**[08:57]** Yeah, like classically didn't seem to care,

**[09:01]** which is kind of the basis for why we,

**[09:03]** why we named the phase this,

**[09:04]** but he's kind of toying with him a little bit.

**[09:07]** And then they get to the final 400 and it's uphill.

**[09:11]** And he just takes off uphill.

**[09:14]** and his body language completely changes,

**[09:16]** and he's sprinting, and he's got his little celebration

**[09:19]** at the end, where he's pointing at the different people

**[09:21]** in the crowd, and you can see the guy behind him.

**[09:23]** We won by 19 seconds, too.

**[09:26]** After all of that, he got ahead by a significant margin.

**[09:28]** But dude, that guy's body language,

**[09:29]** for trying to kick with him, was hilarious.

**[09:31]** You can just see this blurry figure in the background,

**[09:34]** so incredibly unwell, which is amazing.

**[09:37]** So I looked at the phase, what we've got

**[09:40]** for what we're gonna bias in this phase,

**[09:42]** And I saw five by five back squat gymnastics

**[09:45]** pulling and rowing.

**[09:47]** And in my mind, I'm like,

**[09:48]** I'm gonna intentionally curse here,

**[09:50]** but you walk into the gym and by fucking osmosis,

**[09:54]** you're gonna get fitter.

**[09:54]** That is a stimulus bomb, those movements, right?

**[09:58]** Like those are movements where you gotta,
