---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Misfit Mind: Do it for you - E.1"
published: 2025-12-12
episode_number: "1"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "08:01"
topics: ["Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Misfit Mind: Do it for you - E.1 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Misfit Mind: Do it for you - E.1](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits. All right, you fat, big bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I ever said I was up.

**[00:17]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into an experimental, short-form version of the Misfit

**[00:22]** Podcast. If you follow us on Instagram, we have posts that we call Misfit Mind where we sort of

**[00:28]** of go over a topic that is come from my personal experiences, could be reading something, listening

**[00:35]** to something. A lot of times this stuff comes up on a walk and I try to put it down on paper

**[00:39]** as a concept to make sense for you guys.

**[00:42]** And I thought it would be cool to try a short form version of the podcast that we do. I

**[00:46]** mean, you guys can let me know what you think where I give you guys the inspiration for

**[00:50]** what it was and we dig in a little bit deeper. So if the mindset stuff is not necessarily

**[00:54]** what you're here for, that's totally fine.

**[00:56]** Or you want a preview of this episode,

**[00:58]** you can go to our Instagram and there's a post

**[01:01]** that says do it for them, do it for them crossed out,

**[01:04]** and it says do it for you below.

**[01:06]** And that is the Misfit Mind for the week.

**[01:08]** And then you can decide if you wanna hop back in

**[01:09]** and join us for this discussion.

**[01:11]** As always, the podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[01:15]** You can head to gorillamind.com forward slash Misfit

**[01:17]** or just use the code word Misfit when you're checking out.

**[01:20]** This morning, the smoothie recipe was and continues to be

**[01:26]** 300 grams of frozen berries,

**[01:28]** two scoops of milk chocolate gorilla whey,

**[01:30]** 25 grams of sun butter.

**[01:32]** You can use whatever nut butter you want.

**[01:33]** I'm just allergic to everything.

**[01:35]** A tablespoon of olive oil and then enough water

**[01:38]** to get it to the consistency that you want.

**[01:40]** If you wanna try that out

**[01:41]** and get a little bit of a discount and support the show,

**[01:43]** please do Gorilla Mind, code word misfit.

**[01:46]** All right, let's talk about this.

**[01:48]** So I feel like I had an interesting childhood

**[01:52]** being sort of put into multiple worlds.

**[01:54]** And I think it has served me extremely well

**[01:57]** in my professional life, in my adult life.

**[01:59]** And the inspiration for Do It For Them,

**[02:03]** Don't Do It For Them, Do It For Yourself,

**[02:05]** was from a podcast that I was listening to

**[02:08]** where they talked about how this particular person's IQ

**[02:13]** goes up 20 points because of their British accent.

**[02:16]** potentially a little bit tongue in cheek,

**[02:18]** but I think sort of inspired me to think about, you know,

**[02:22]** growing up in a situation where I was around

**[02:24]** a lot of blue collar people through the family business,

**[02:28]** through my extended family.

**[02:29]** And in terms of where I actually grew up,

**[02:33]** I grew up in, you know, Smallville, you know,

**[02:36]** Pleasantville, whatever you want to call it,

**[02:38]** cul-de-sacs, middle class to upper class.

**[02:41]** And in the place that I grew up,

**[02:44]** was a lot of social currency around appearance and what church did you go to. And a lot of it,

**[02:54]** over time, revealed that there wasn't as much substance behind it. A lot of it was about

**[02:59]** keeping up appearances. Whereas the people that I came across in the other part of my world

**[03:08]** weren't really keeping up appearances and would really blow you away with how brilliant that

**[03:14]** they could be. And it sort of taught me not to judge people based on the way that they look or

**[03:21]** the way that they sound, but that goes in both directions, right? So it also taught me not to be

**[03:25]** super impressed by someone because of sort of that short-term interaction where, you know,

**[03:30]** maybe they have themselves presented in a certain way. And then it turns out that, you know, the

**[03:36]** the blue collar worker could, you know, run circles around them. And this obviously works

**[03:40]** conversely in both worlds, but I think it was a really powerful lesson. And then potentially

**[03:46]** the greatest in gym guy on guy dig bro session comment that I ever heard was, wish I was as fit

**[03:55]** as you look. And I don't think RJ or Dave would be listening to this podcast, but if you are,

**[04:00]** shout out really, really kind of funny comment, but it's the same thing when we think about it

**[04:05]** in the gym setting. We get wrapped up in body fat percentage, or if someone's genetics give them

**[04:13]** big traps or shoulders or abs or you want big legs, you don't want big legs. And we get so wrapped

**[04:20]** up in those things and then we get wrapped up in the flavor of the month when it comes to what

**[04:26]** shoes you're supposed to be wearing and what gear you're supposed to have, and even what skills

**[04:30]** you're supposed to have. I've fallen victim to this myself as an athlete, and I know that there

**[04:35]** There are a lot of athletes out there who, you know,

**[04:37]** handstand pushups, muscle ups, handstand walking,

**[04:40]** all of these things, you know,

**[04:41]** the time and effort has been put in there.

**[04:43]** And then the fitness isn't really there.

**[04:45]** That GPP element isn't really there.

**[04:48]** So what we see when we see the max set of muscle ups

**[04:51]** on Instagram and that physique that we would love to have

**[04:55]** and all of these different things kind of come together

**[04:58]** and then they don't end up even having a spot

**[05:01]** beside you in the arena, right?

**[05:02]** You work out with them and you realize,

**[05:04]** hey, we're gonna do some misfit athletics bitch work here,

**[05:08]** and it's not gonna go so well for them.

**[05:10]** So the moral of the story here is thinking about

**[05:14]** who we are doing things for, and it is such an easy trap,

**[05:19]** and something where you're honestly not even really

**[05:21]** feeling it while you're doing it,

**[05:22]** but you're keeping up appearances to the point

**[05:25]** where you're sacrificing a part of yourself,

**[05:29]** and over time, that just becomes such an issue, right?

**[05:32]** the person who is keeping up appearances that looks like they have all of their shit together,

**[05:37]** whether it be in their personal life, professional life in the gym, and then in reality doesn't

**[05:42]** has this dizzying level of ups and downs in their life, right?

**[05:45]** They get these honeymoon phase, you know, could be a personal relationship, could be

**[05:49]** a job, could be whatever.

**[05:51]** And when it comes down to the substance, when that is revealed, they either have to do with

**[05:56]** the fact that they're not living up to the expectation that they've set with other people

**[06:01]** or they just quit and start over

**[06:03]** and it becomes this endless cycle.

**[06:05]** Whereas figuring out who you wanna be

**[06:08]** and what you wanna achieve and why you wanna achieve it

**[06:11]** and doing it for yourself takes you on this journey

**[06:14]** down this path where you're gonna go to places

**[06:18]** that you didn't think you're gonna be able to go

**[06:20]** and you're gonna develop an identity

**[06:22]** that you can actually be proud of.

**[06:23]** So when I'm thinking about this,

**[06:25]** when I'm thinking about going all the way back

**[06:27]** to the original point of like,

**[06:28]** Can you have your IQ vaulted because of the way that you speak?

**[06:35]** Or can you have it down in the dumps because of the way that you speak is kind

**[06:38]** of a metaphor for a lot of this.

**[06:41]** One of our best examples is the misfit community and you know, the program

**[06:45]** hoppers come and go, and there are people who come in and have some success and then

**[06:50]** see this shiny object and leave and have to come back.

**[06:53]** And then we have the mainstays.

**[06:55]** We have the people that are, you know, in the telegram and following the program

**[06:59]** and just getting after it.

**[07:00]** And those are the people that see the success and those are the people who sort

**[07:04]** of understand who they are.

**[07:05]** And those are the people who, when we go to training camps and I get to communicate

**[07:08]** with them, we can dig a little bit deeper again, because there is substance.

**[07:13]** Because I'm not arriving with that shell on that is, this is who I think you want

**[07:19]** me to be as a person, as an athlete, et cetera.

**[07:22]** We want you guys to show up and come to us

**[07:25]** and be part of the community as yourself.

**[07:28]** Definitely fits into the Misfit moniker.

**[07:30]** So there it is, the first Misfit Mind Short Form Podcast.

**[07:33]** I would love to know what you guys think,

**[07:35]** the usual places, email coach at misfitathletics.com,

**[07:39]** Telegram, Instagram DMs, either Misfit Coach

**[07:42]** or Misfit Athletics, those are both me.

**[07:44]** And yeah, see you guys next week.

**[07:46]** We're on Misfits.

**[07:47]** Bitch Bitch!

**[07:49]** Alright you redneck bunch of misfits!

**[07:51]** You're a scrappy little misfit just like me!

**[07:55]** The biggest bunch of misfits I ever said I'd done!
