---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Leveling up: Quarterfinals to Semifinals, Semifinals to Games, and beyond - E.388"
published: 2026-02-17
episode_number: "388"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:56"
chunk_end: "19:54"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Leveling up: Quarterfinals to Semifinals, Semifinals to Games, and beyond - E.388 - Chunk 2

Episode: [[../episode|Leveling up: Quarterfinals to Semifinals, Semifinals to Games, and beyond - E.388]]

## Transcript

**[09:56]** recreate proper recover is one scoop of the Gorilla Mode Intra.

**[10:02]** So that's carbs, creatine and electrolytes.

**[10:05]** And then almost two scoops, not quite 40 grams of protein of the vanilla ice cream way.

**[10:12]** So I put all that in this bad boy and then flavor wise, I got to go with two shakers.

**[10:17]** That's why I have this.

**[10:18]** I dump about half of it in.

**[10:19]** But that also gets me 32 ounces of water and I just think hydration is so important and

**[10:26]** suck so bad at it, which is why I project and get a little preachy about hydration sometimes.

**[10:32]** Sure.

**[10:33]** Yeah.

**[10:34]** So, Intra and Way together, it's still two products, but it's a lot better than four

**[10:39]** or five.

**[10:40]** And then my other part of show and tell is I have these bad boys for my pills.

**[10:44]** So I have, they come in like eight packs.

**[10:46]** No microplastics there.

**[10:48]** microplastics here and I got a lot of pills in here. I take two of those bad boys a day.

**[10:55]** Yeah, Gorillamind.com, port slash misfit. You save on what I think are the best supplements

**[11:02]** in the game and you support the show. We get a little bit of kick back there.

**[11:05]** I have the cherry blackout Gorilla Mode Intra. Just to give a flavor profile,

**[11:12]** If you've ever had a Tootsie Pop, a red Tootsie Pop, and you get to the end where you're mixing,

**[11:19]** you get the sugar coating and some of the Tootsie Roll, it's that.

**[11:24]** It's that to a T, and it tastes really good.

**[11:27]** So highly recommended to adjust like an extra carb.

**[11:30]** I haven't gone through the strawberry kiwi yet to be able to get to that point.

**[11:36]** I think you'll like it.

**[11:39]** That's one thing, I forever was chocolate protein only,

**[11:44]** but I wasn't really mixing anything with it.

**[11:47]** I get sick of it though.

**[11:49]** Chocolate protein is one of those things

**[11:51]** where you're 99th day in a row,

**[11:53]** you're like, I can't drink this.

**[11:55]** So switching over to, it never even crossed my mind,

**[11:58]** honestly, to the fruity post-workout.

**[12:02]** I down that every single time.

**[12:05]** It's post-workout, my body wants the water,

**[12:08]** the electrolytes, the carbs, all that stuff.

**[12:09]** And I just find it way easier.

**[12:12]** Yeah, I find it way easier to drink every single day.

**[12:15]** So I just use the chocolate for my smoothie and the...

**[12:18]** All right, let's talk about leveling up.

**[12:22]** The inspiration for this episode came from,

**[12:25]** did a lecture at the Roots Camp

**[12:28]** where I basically created a pyramid

**[12:31]** that was like open athlete level one is at the base,

**[12:35]** level two, quarterfinals level one, quarterfinals level two,

**[12:39]** and then semi-finals and beyond at the top.

**[12:41]** And I'd given two lectures in the past

**[12:44]** that certainly didn't conflict with one another,

**[12:47]** but sort of represented different ways

**[12:50]** of thinking about this.

**[12:51]** One of them was a lecture called

**[12:53]** The Natural Order of Things,

**[12:54]** where it's just like, you have to get better

**[12:57]** at these things first and then these things.

**[12:59]** And there isn't going to be a way

**[13:01]** for you to skip any of them.

**[13:03]** There are gonna be strengths and weaknesses

**[13:04]** based on your genetics, your age, athlete profile, all these different things.

**[13:10]** But you can't skip steps.

**[13:12]** It's not possible.

**[13:13]** I've never seen it.

**[13:14]** I've, I've seen people that have progressed faster to certain places, but

**[13:18]** then their weaknesses are so glaring and obvious.

**[13:21]** So that one's almost like there is only one path to get here.

**[13:25]** And then the other lecture is one called whatever it takes.

**[13:28]** And that lecture came from more and more athletes that are remote clients

**[13:33]** coming to visit me in person and realizing that whatever it takes is different for different

**[13:39]** people.

**[13:40]** Some people don't mind doing their zone to work.

**[13:44]** Some people love weightlifting.

**[13:45]** Some people hate weightlifting.

**[13:47]** Some people actually put their training sessions together really well, but can't stand warming

**[13:53]** up, cooling down, doing mobility work.

**[13:55]** Some people can't stand weighing and measuring their food.

**[13:59]** And there's all these are going to bed and waking up at the same time every single day.

**[14:03]** So whatever it takes changes from athlete to athlete.

**[14:07]** So my goal was to blend these concepts together because it's like, okay, there's only one

**[14:11]** path to get there, but then also everyone's path is different.

**[14:15]** And essentially what I tried to do is show different tiers of movements and modalities

**[14:24]** that you need to be able to get good at.

**[14:26]** But then the way that you get good at them is potentially different for each person.

**[14:29]** And probably the easiest way to start the conversation is the bottom is double unders,

**[14:34]** thrusters, rowing, and burpees.

**[14:36]** And that's just straight up general physical preparedness.

**[14:39]** If you are not good at those things, if you don't have the ability to express your fitness

**[14:45]** when those things come up, the rest of it's going to be a problem for all kinds of different

**[14:49]** reasons.

**[14:50]** And we don't need to go through each step of this.

**[14:52]** I just kind of wanted to explain to you guys and I can share the graphic in Telegram, but

**[14:58]** but it's kind of the basis for the idea here.

**[15:01]** And then before we get into how to level up in each place,

**[15:05]** some of the inspiration for this is also,

**[15:10]** I had three young, like late teens,

**[15:14]** potentially early 20s, I don't remember exactly,

**[15:17]** I think it was late teens, athletes walk into my gym,

**[15:21]** that ended up being CrossFit Games athletes.

**[15:23]** So I got to see them in like beginner mode,

**[15:27]** I get to teach them movements and I got to watch them go from each level all the way

**[15:32]** on up to, you know, how are we doing in the open to are we going to qualify for regionals

**[15:38]** this year to when are we going to qualify for the CrossFit Games.

**[15:42]** And I just tried to think about like, first of all, I don't want to toot my own horn,

**[15:46]** but like, it's kind of crazy that we had three.

**[15:49]** Well, and very different mindsets in all three of them.

**[15:53]** Yeah, for sure.

**[15:55]** But what I don't want to do is discount the fact.

**[15:59]** Cody was captain of the football team, point guard on the basketball team, picture shortstop

**[16:06]** on the baseball team.

**[16:08]** Austin had this weird combination of like he had the waste of like a Victorian woman

**[16:15]** who wore a corset for her whole life and is also powerful.

**[16:20]** And then Caroline's just repping out strict pull ups like outside of her beginners class.

**[16:24]** So listen, there is a genetic element.

**[16:26]** They were athletes before, but they really did.

**[16:29]** Each of them had these massive hurdles to get over.

**[16:33]** So I tried to think about how did we incubate that sort of thing?

**[16:36]** And I had four things come to mind, obsessed with movement efficiency.

**[16:44]** To the point where in our gym in the early days, and part of this is the maturity level

**[16:51]** also of the people in charge at that point.

**[16:53]** I started this when I was very young.

**[16:57]** We would ridicule people into moving really well.

**[17:00]** Basically, Joe Carney would be in the gym and just be like,

**[17:05]** ew, what is that?

**[17:06]** Go fix that right now.

**[17:08]** So there was a little bit too much of this

**[17:11]** is the only way to move.

**[17:13]** But I will tell you that that obsession with teaching people

**[17:16]** to move efficiently, we got to watch that carry over

**[17:20]** for years and years and years.

**[17:22]** It was very obvious and sometimes they'd be right next to someone with a higher level

**[17:28]** of GPP than them.

**[17:30]** And it was like they're in their own way because we were being real annoying about making them

**[17:34]** do the couch stretch and making them keep their dip.

**[17:38]** And like, you got to have your heels down in power position and you can't be flying

**[17:42]** open on the row where like just all of this different stuff was like the like bedrock

**[17:47]** of what we taught them.

**[17:50]** We were also very much, and this is part of what changed about my mindset with whatever

**[17:55]** it takes.

**[17:56]** We used to say take your medicine as like echo bike sprints, basically.

**[17:59]** It's all bike sprints.

**[18:01]** That was taking your medicine.

**[18:02]** But that's not everyone, that's not taking your medicine for everyone, right?

**[18:07]** For some people, it's the long time domain.

**[18:09]** Some people it's in the middle, et cetera.

**[18:11]** But intensity was everything, right?

**[18:15]** Like we did a good job of shifting them into like how do we execute this workout when the

**[18:23]** time came, but the barrier to entry was moving well and going very hard.

**[18:29]** And you can think about how, if you could figure out how to do those two things, how

**[18:34]** you would excel in the sport.

**[18:35]** For sure.

**[18:37]** Yeah.

**[18:38]** Weakness work.

**[18:39]** When you are in that kind of environment and you want to recreate this with your virtual

**[18:45]** training partners, when you're in that kind of environment, there's always going to be

**[18:49]** someone who is incredible at double unders while you're struggling with them, can do

**[18:54]** wall balls all day while you can't do them.

**[18:57]** Their row pace is exponentially higher than yours, that sort of deal.

**[19:01]** And it makes the glaring weaknesses just so obvious and frustrating that it's like, what

**[19:08]** do we do here?

**[19:09]** How do we get better at this specific thing?

**[19:12]** Are we grabbing the rope and doing a hundred double unders after a Metcon when everyone else is done?

**[19:17]** You know, are we doing a ton of barbell therapy?

**[19:20]** Are we doing a ton of mobility work to be able to get you into positions that other people can get into that?

**[19:25]** You can't get into are we gonna like bias the shit out of running?

**[19:30]** We're gonna figure out how to turn someone who looks like they're trying to stomp a hole in the pavement into

**[19:35]** Someone who can be you know top at the you know

**[19:39]** you know, semi-finals or CrossFit games in a running event, that sort of thing.

**[19:42]** But what made this so possible and so special was what the early days of CrossFit gave people

**[19:53]** in terms of hope.
