---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382"
published: 2026-01-07
episode_number: "382"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits!

**[00:30]** testing actually came up with sort of three categories and then a gray area

**[00:35]** fourth category and what we're gonna try to do is define what these things are

**[00:40]** why we would do them and then how to execute on them maybe at the end of the

**[00:44]** episode we are going to dig into the rise of the machines conversation but as

**[00:50]** I started my notes there I realized this could be like a four-hour episode I have

**[00:55]** a lot of thoughts on it and honestly a lot of them are contradictory so I think

**[00:58]** It could be a fun conversation, so we'll see how long it takes us to talk about testing,

**[01:03]** training, and competing and see if we want to do the Rise of the Machines today or on

**[01:07]** another episode.

**[01:08]** And if we don't do it today and you guys want to hear it, just let us know.

**[01:11]** Before we get into that conversation, we're going to do a little housekeeping.

**[01:15]** We are going to do read, listen, watch.

**[01:17]** If you are new to the podcast and you don't want to listen to us, yap.

**[01:20]** You can, I'm just kidding.

**[01:22]** You can go to the chapters and click when we start talking about this, but we give the

**[01:26]** people what they want.

**[01:27]** You got me on that.

**[01:29]** Yeah, I got myself on it. I almost said it. All right, housekeeping. So if you listen to the

**[01:35]** podcasts and you follow our content on social media, YouTube, etc, and you want to support what

**[01:40]** we do, here are the ways to do so. Training camp. It is officially training camp month,

**[01:46]** 24 days from now or 23 days from now. We are heading to Boulder,

**[01:51]** Colorado to CrossFit roots, a true kind of OG, I don't know, kind of CrossFit mecca type place.

**[01:57]** A really special place in Boulder, Colorado, and we will be there January 30th through

**[02:01]** February 1st.

**[02:02]** You can get signed up through the link and bio on our Instagram.

**[02:06]** This is a kind of open prep quarterfinals prep style camp.

**[02:10]** And man, I just, I don't know when we're our next camp is going to be.

**[02:13]** It's always hard with schedules not being released for seasons and whatnot.

**[02:17]** And these weekends are pretty special.

**[02:19]** So if you have the funds and the time to make it happen, I highly, highly suggest doing

**[02:25]** so.

**[02:26]** that you can support what we do is by following our programs. Same thing, link in bio on Instagram,

**[02:31]** our individual programs are available through Fitter and Strivee. And if you are looking

**[02:36]** for our affiliate program and you can go to team misfit.com, click on sign up now and

**[02:40]** you can get a two week free trial at sugar wad stream fit or push press, or you can email

**[02:44]** me coach at misfit athletics.com and I will send you a PDF version of our program. The

**[02:50]** third way is to go to sharpen the ax co.com and buy some misfit gear. I am cooking up.

**[02:56]** I am cooking up a new design right now that I'm very excited about.

**[03:01]** And the teaser is SSE Racing Team.

**[03:05]** So I'll just kind of put that out into the world.

**[03:08]** I'm at sharpentheaxco.com, buy some gear.

**[03:11]** And last but not least, this episode and every episode of the podcast

**[03:14]** is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[03:16]** These are the best supplements in the game.

**[03:18]** Told you guys I wanted to try their intro workout product and I am a huge fan.

**[03:23]** basically carbs, electrolytes, creatine, and scientifically efficacious doses.

**[03:30]** I personally use it in my post-workout. I do 40 grams of protein through the vanilla ice cream

**[03:38]** flavor that they've got for their whey protein. And then I do one scoop of the

**[03:44]** intra sort of mixed together, which I use the strawberry kiwi and it's pretty good.

**[03:48]** I am a two shaker person.

**[03:52]** So to get that and to get the flavor ratios right, I feel like one shaker is not enough.

**[03:57]** So I do 32 ounces of water and I split them into two.

**[04:01]** So if you go to grillamind.com forward slash misfit or just go to their website and use

**[04:04]** the codeword misfit, you save, you support the podcast and they make supplements that

**[04:09]** actually work.

**[04:10]** I like the intro workout a lot.

**[04:11]** I have, I think the cherry.

**[04:14]** Okay.

**[04:15]** How is that?

**[04:16]** It tastes good.

**[04:17]** me like proper vibes like the blue raspberry like you get like that like

**[04:23]** very flavorful but like salty yeah yes I did it post workout today it's very good

**[04:30]** and you're an athlete too like like you could probably do the the double scoop

**[04:36]** over the course of a training session get the 80 grams of carbs get the 5

**[04:40]** grams of creatine get the electrolytes that you need for me that would be a

**[04:45]** a probably a testing day. I would have half of it while I was getting ready and training

**[04:51]** and getting myself kind of ready to go and ready to push. And then the other half. So,

**[04:56]** so one scoop each but really cool product. Glad that they have it glad that I can basically

**[05:01]** recreate proper with two products instead of like 56. All right, we'll do some shoutouts

**[05:06]** here real quick and then we will do read, listen, watch. The list is too damn long after

**[05:11]** a retest week, but I just have to give a shout out to the people that listen to the podcast,

**[05:17]** that participate in Telegram, that take the words that we put on paper and turn them into

**[05:23]** actual results. Because we do everything that we can and we bring humility and open-mindedness

**[05:30]** and all of our history to programming, but if you guys don't execute on it, it isn't

**[05:34]** anything, right? It doesn't exist. It's the tree falling in the woods when no one's there,

**[05:39]** of a situation. So the amount of PRs that we saw last week and not just PRs, but like

**[05:45]** beginner gains PRs from decade long athletes is just so motivating for us as coaches and

**[05:52]** programmers. So huge shout out and hat tip to the crew. And if you're looking for a program

**[05:57]** to follow, first and foremost, you actually have to execute and work your ass off to make

**[06:00]** it happen. But I think I think we get a pretty good proof of concept from the group of people

**[06:06]** that we know are actually executing.

**[06:08]** Yeah, I mean, you and I are pretty like-minded.

**[06:11]** Like, we didn't have the same...

**[06:12]** We didn't share our shout-outs before getting on here.

**[06:15]** And right away, I'm like, everybody communicating in telegram

**[06:19]** and like, kind of upping that conversation

**[06:21]** and not being afraid to, you know, throw questions out there

**[06:24]** and take feedback, you know, actively

**[06:26]** and being like, kind of ahead of the game right now

**[06:29]** is really exciting to see.

**[06:31]** And, you know, there's a small group of people

**[06:34]** that are consistently posting in telegram.

**[06:36]** And I think they're just kind of the, you know, they're making it feel like a supportive,

**[06:41]** safe place to post.

**[06:43]** And, you know, posting scores can be, you got to be a little vulnerable to be able to

**[06:47]** do it.

**[06:48]** So.

**[06:49]** For sure.

**[06:50]** It's definitely not, you know, it's not always that fun.

**[06:51]** You have to let your ego aside and, you know, having that community kind of already set

**[06:57]** the tone before people really started getting active in there has been really fun to see.

**[07:01]** Hell yeah.

**[07:02]** All right.

**[07:03]** Read, listen, watch what you got for us.

**[07:05]** Okay, I'll say my listen first because it's not really something I could share for you

**[07:12]** guys to listen to.

**[07:13]** I know I talked about it, I think, two or three weeks ago.

**[07:16]** We started working with the consulting business.

**[07:18]** So we get people to click on our social media ads.

**[07:21]** And by we, you don't mean us.

**[07:23]** You mean your job at the gym.

**[07:25]** Yeah.

**[07:26]** So here at Great White, basically, we're just kind of in like a, I guess, constructive criticism,

**[07:33]** getting feedback in on how our calls are going and how we're doing.

**[07:36]** So a lot of my listening is kind of directed towards that.

**[07:40]** I haven't really been doing anything new outside of that.

**[07:43]** Like that is just the big kind of focal point for me right now,

**[07:45]** besides balancing that and what we're doing here with Misfit.

**[07:48]** So yeah, nothing too crazy there.

**[07:50]** But my watch is Little Disasters on Paramount+.

**[07:56]** Little Disasters, I don't think I've heard of it.

**[07:58]** Yeah, so it has to do, I'm not done with it yet.

**[08:00]** My friend Aaron introduced me to it.

**[08:02]** started watching it. It has to do with basically there's a group of friends, but one family

**[08:07]** in particular that brings their child to the hospital because she is crying pretty aggressively

**[08:13]** at one night. Something traumatic happened that caused a skull fracture and the mom was

**[08:20]** hiding it. There's a lot of little nuances to it. But it's been pretty good. I don't

**[08:25]** want to give away too much. But if you want to go watch something, it has a couple twists

**[08:30]** and turns.

**[08:31]** Nice.

**[08:32]** Then my read is actually from a YouTube video.

**[08:37]** I just wanted to put the quote out there.

**[08:39]** I usually sometimes I'll go on YouTube and find

**[08:43]** random clips and things to

**[08:45]** listen to while I'm in a zone two session.

**[08:47]** Sometimes it just makes the time go by a little bit better.

**[08:50]** But there was a clip in this one YouTube video.

**[08:52]** It says, the world belongs to those who can

**[08:55]** continue to work without seeing the result of their work,

**[08:57]** continue to do without seeing the result of their doing.

**[09:00]** And it's really the person who can do that for the longest period of time.

**[09:03]** And that's usually because they're still getting leading indicators.

**[09:06]** And it's just that it's amounting to a much bigger mountain.

**[09:09]** So if you want to do the big shit, it takes a way longer period of time because the easy shit,

**[09:15]** the little hills, everyone conquers really easily.

**[09:17]** I'm on time, I say please and thank you.

**[09:20]** It's like, so what?

**[09:21]** If you want to do something that most people can't do,

**[09:24]** extend the time horizon on the things that most people can't weather.

**[09:27]** There's so much opportunity on the other side of being willing to persist for an extended period of time on the right path without getting positive reinforcement from your environment.

**[09:36]** I really like that. It came from this YouTube video that kind of talks about like, I don't really know how to say it.

**[09:43]** It's like, you know, essentially explaining why big goals can feel really lonely because most people kind of quit before that mountain really shows itself.

**[09:53]** And just kind of like that uncertainty and that middle ground that you're growing through it.
