---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382"
published: 2026-01-07
episode_number: "382"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:57"
chunk_end: "29:55"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382 - Chunk 3

Episode: [[../episode|Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382]]

## Transcript

**[19:57]** how do you manage the stress around it, how do you manage your emotions. And you get to see where you

**[20:02]** stack up. There's, I mean, a lot of people have their why, but these are kind of those foundational

**[20:08]** reasons that people want to compete. You want to test yourself against the best.

**[20:12]** It's like the reason I paused is because I think there's the definition that you gave and then for me it's like

**[20:19]** It's in my soul like yeah

**[20:21]** I was a testing and competing kind of athlete and not so great on the training side and I didn't really learn

**[20:29]** how and the what and the why of all of this until I got

**[20:31]** Involved mostly in the in the CrossFit community a little bit of training kind of before that but there's just

**[20:37]** there's an itch, I think that some people have.

**[20:41]** And what happens when you compete

**[20:44]** and have the ability to express what you're capable of,

**[20:47]** I think can reset the stage for you

**[20:50]** and kind of keep you in it.

**[20:52]** Because, you know, the gap between,

**[20:57]** the gap between what I was capable of doing on a random day

**[21:01]** and then what I was able to do with, like,

**[21:04]** in a pressure scenario was very large.

**[21:06]** And I think that if I had been a little bit more recreational

**[21:12]** and just did it for kind of the love of the game

**[21:14]** and didn't compete very often,

**[21:16]** that I either would have had to figure out how to do that

**[21:19]** or I would have just stopped.

**[21:20]** So it kept me, that like rush kept me coming back.

**[21:25]** And I'm not saying that that's necessarily a good thing,

**[21:27]** but there's something to the like romantic side of it,

**[21:32]** I think when it comes to competing,

**[21:34]** especially if you get the opportunity

**[21:35]** to compete at a stage again that brings the most out of you.

**[21:39]** Yeah, I feel like I kind of get a blend of both.

**[21:42]** Like I am definitely one of those athletes

**[21:45]** that shows up on competition day,

**[21:47]** at least that's notoriously how I've been.

**[21:50]** I could probably say a little different this past year,

**[21:53]** of course, but there's just something that,

**[21:56]** there's no cooler feeling than just being able

**[21:59]** to step up to the plate.

**[22:02]** It's like just getting to experience all of those feelings.

**[22:05]** I don't know what it is.

**[22:06]** It's just like, you just love it.

**[22:08]** It's hard to walk away.

**[22:09]** I can tell you that.

**[22:10]** It's very hard.

**[22:11]** Amen.

**[22:12]** And then there's the gray area here.

**[22:14]** And this is an important one.

**[22:16]** So this is what I would refer to as throwing down.

**[22:19]** So again, this can be you have a training partner and there are perils related to doing

**[22:25]** every workout the same, not just the same workout, but trying to execute it in the same

**[22:30]** way as a training partner and something I don't recommend to the masses unless you're

**[22:36]** kind of an affiliate athlete and you're doing, you know, kind of going hard three or four

**[22:39]** times a week.

**[22:40]** I think that's a really cool place to do that.

**[22:41]** But throwing down would be, you know, like for you and McKenna, you trained in the same

**[22:47]** room at the same time often, but it was somewhat rare that it would be like you guys have the

**[22:52]** same piece and the same focus and then you get to kind of do that thing.

**[22:55]** You get to sort of stoke that competitive fire a little bit.

**[22:59]** And it's painful.

**[23:00]** Yeah, yep. I think about it a lot as some of our like weekend things or if an athlete comes to visit.

**[23:07]** That's one area of throwing down that I see where the athlete could be alone and competing with a version of themselves that they're trying to overcome or don't want to be, right?

**[23:20]** So like there's been this narrative that I've had for myself for this super long period of time.

**[23:25]** and I'm gonna go visit coach and I'm gonna show him

**[23:27]** what I'm made of and I'm like fighting that thing.

**[23:31]** And there's a huge risk and reward related to

**[23:34]** this world of throwing down.

**[23:36]** The reward is stimulus is beautiful.

**[23:40]** You also, if you have any athlete IQ,

**[23:43]** you probably have to work on like,

**[23:45]** if you're trying to throw down

**[23:46]** and you don't strategize very well,

**[23:47]** unless the counterpart is also doing the same thing,

**[23:50]** you're just gonna get dusted

**[23:52]** and that's not gonna go very well.

**[23:53]** But then the risk is what is happening

**[23:56]** to your nervous system over an extended period of time, right?

**[24:00]** Are we seeing this like up and down, huge up and down HRV

**[24:04]** depending on how often you're doing it

**[24:07]** and how hard you're going.

**[24:09]** And again, one of the reasons why these things are not,

**[24:12]** like I have, I don't tell stories

**[24:16]** about other athletes without permission,

**[24:18]** but I have a book's worth of especially dudes.

**[24:22]** Oh my God, dudes, you guys gotta chill out.

**[24:26]** Like losing their minds over a random workout

**[24:30]** on a random day.

**[24:31]** Like there were people who were competing

**[24:32]** at like the highest levels in the sport,

**[24:35]** top 20 games athletes who considered retiring

**[24:39]** because they could never win on the workout,

**[24:43]** on the day, like on the leaderboard.

**[24:44]** So again, I can show you some of the risk there

**[24:47]** and what happens potentially to someone's self-worth

**[24:51]** that's tied into doing those things.

**[24:53]** Very true.

**[24:55]** Yeah, man, I think back to some of those group shouts

**[24:58]** we had that we would share trading scores

**[25:00]** and just the chatter that would happen, the chirping and gosh.

**[25:06]** Yes.

**[25:07]** I don't know how I survived.

**[25:08]** Honestly, I'm not that athlete.

**[25:11]** Yeah, yeah, seriously.

**[25:12]** Well, I mean, the amount of times you would see

**[25:13]** so and so left the group,

**[25:15]** that was, those were regular occurrences

**[25:18]** and there'd be side groups of the Agro crew together,

**[25:22]** and then the like,

**[25:23]** hey, let's just be nice to each other crew together.

**[25:25]** And honestly, a lot of times that was just guys and girls.

**[25:27]** We had some girls that were guys,

**[25:29]** and we had some guys that were girls, but so,

**[25:32]** and then for me, we had the year where it was like five

**[25:35]** people in the same gym going to regionals and all,

**[25:38]** swimming around that top 10 regionals area.

**[25:42]** And oh my God, those running up the stairs to tell me

**[25:45]** so and so cheated on their wall balls,

**[25:46]** The amount of times that happened was terrifying.

**[25:49]** All right, so now really important to get into execution.

**[25:54]** And we're gonna start with testing

**[25:55]** because testing oftentimes is where we are starting.

**[26:00]** We are setting the baseline that you referenced,

**[26:02]** then we're getting to work.

**[26:04]** Then we're really testing at the end.

**[26:07]** And variables and expectations,

**[26:09]** I think is a really good place to start

**[26:11]** because we gotta know how you're sleeping.

**[26:14]** We gotta know if you're weighing and measuring your food

**[26:16]** and knowing that like, yeah, I'm looking shredded.

**[26:20]** I'm super low fat right now.

**[26:22]** My hormones are trash or I'm low carb and I'm shredded

**[26:27]** and I have no energy and you know, can't stay in a mentally

**[26:30]** and that's fucking with my sleep.

**[26:32]** So what is happening on the outside?

**[26:35]** What are you doing for warmup and cool down

**[26:37]** and mobility work?

**[26:38]** And what is the surrounding volume?

**[26:40]** So if you follow Misfit Athletics,

**[26:43]** The instructions in test week are very much related to

**[26:46]** this is so you can set baselines

**[26:49]** and have realistic numbers to try and improve on.

**[26:51]** And if you're always adding extra pieces,

**[26:54]** you're always adding extra lifts,

**[26:55]** you're spending too much time in the gym under intensity,

**[26:59]** instead of again, warming up, cooling down,

**[27:02]** doing your mobility, all of that stuff,

**[27:04]** then your scores are gonna change.

**[27:05]** And people have these expectations of what they want

**[27:08]** and sometimes they're just unrealistic

**[27:10]** because they're unrealistic.

**[27:11]** they are comparing scores to somebody else

**[27:13]** and just thinking that, okay, well they got that score

**[27:16]** so it's possible to get that score.

**[27:18]** I don't have my 10,000 hours they do,

**[27:20]** I should get that score anyways.

**[27:21]** There's a problem within that, but then like,

**[27:24]** again, not gonna call anybody out,

**[27:26]** but there are definitely people in Telegram

**[27:27]** that are like, that weight was too light,

**[27:30]** I added more, and it's like there is,

**[27:32]** if you wanna DM me and say, why is this easy?

**[27:36]** Like what are we doing right now?

**[27:37]** I will tell you the exact reason why.

**[27:40]** You know, progressive overload is a thing.

**[27:42]** We are setting baselines again to grow on,

**[27:45]** but the things surrounding the variables surrounding

**[27:49]** everything outside of the test should line up really well

**[27:53]** with what your expectations are.

**[27:54]** Yeah, I like to, like all my remote athletes,

**[27:58]** like they're all in it because they want to, you know,

**[28:00]** compete throughout the season.

**[28:02]** So it's like, well, I want you guys to really be able

**[28:04]** to bring intensity to one training piece right now.

**[28:07]** Like, again, we're getting ready for the open.

**[28:10]** A quarter finals prep will be slightly different,

**[28:12]** but it's like, show me how you prepare for that one piece.

**[28:15]** And then it's like, we move on from there.

**[28:18]** But like, warm up, cool down, like all those little details.

**[28:21]** Again, this is just that time to dial it in.

**[28:24]** And when you come out the other side,

**[28:25]** typically with a retest, it's like, look at phase two.

**[28:28]** Everybody smashed phase two in terms of progress.

**[28:32]** So like, again, I can't emphasize enough less is more

**[28:36]** when you learn to bring intensity in the right way,

**[28:39]** into the right pieces.

**[28:40]** And that's a skill.

**[28:41]** And that's the one thing that can be so frustrating is like,

**[28:45]** and it's usually obvious, the people who have a similar,

**[28:48]** like a certain sentiment about what's happening

**[28:50]** within a training day that reach out to me,

**[28:52]** and then say, I didn't do better on my retest.

**[28:56]** Like, I don't wanna say I could have predicted that,

**[28:58]** but like, I kind of could have.

**[29:01]** And again, the way that we do all of these things

**[29:05]** is going to have a major impact on the actual end result.

**[29:08]** It's not just like, you know,

**[29:10]** we can't put the book under our pillow and know the answers.

**[29:14]** Right? Like we have to live it.

**[29:16]** We have to, you know, we're going to talk about,

**[29:18]** you know, using the whole like, this is my hypothesis.

**[29:21]** I'm going to test it and then see what happens afterwards.

**[29:23]** Athlete IQ.

**[29:24]** So we will do an athlete IQ exercise right now

**[29:29]** related to the wall walk deadlift test.

**[29:33]** And for those that are not following the program,

**[29:37]** we have one, three, six, nine, 15, 21,

**[29:42]** Wall Walk Deadlift.

**[29:44]** The weights change from program to program.

**[29:48]** I believe the Pro version is 315

**[29:51]** and the Hatchet version is 275

**[29:53]** and the Masters version is 245.
