---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382"
published: 2026-01-07
episode_number: "382"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:57"
chunk_end: "39:54"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382 - Chunk 4

Episode: [[../episode|Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382]]

## Transcript

**[29:57]** In terms of the men's weight on the barbell.

**[29:59]** And I want to use this as an opportunity

**[30:01]** to tell you guys how we would talk through

**[30:04]** so Paige is competing and we get a workout announced.

**[30:08]** And it's like, let's talk about how many reps in total

**[30:12]** we have here, how many breaks we're thinking

**[30:14]** and kind of do the math on it.

**[30:16]** And the goal isn't always to set an expectation on the time,

**[30:20]** but it's to understand what the workout is.

**[30:24]** So the very first thing that we would do here

**[30:26]** is define total reps.

**[30:28]** So we have 55 of each, that is really important there.

**[30:31]** If you're doing an AMRAP, you need to do this in reverse.

**[30:34]** You need to figure out how long a round would take

**[30:36]** and then figure out what the reps are.

**[30:37]** And we'll get to that at the end.

**[30:38]** That's super important.

**[30:39]** I am a how long does a rep take guy?

**[30:43]** And Hunter is a reps per minute guy.

**[30:46]** I find reps per minute to be a little bit easier

**[30:48]** to communicate to another person.

**[30:50]** I'm definitely like a math brain person.

**[30:52]** So when I start down the rabbit hole of like,

**[30:55]** well, these actually take this long

**[30:56]** and then you multiply it by this

**[30:58]** and time math can be tough, right?

**[31:01]** So like I use spreadsheets for this

**[31:02]** and it's a huge pain.

**[31:04]** Google Sheets and minutes and seconds

**[31:06]** don't really jive all that well.

**[31:08]** So it's like 82 seconds is what.

**[31:10]** So basically what you need to do is get an idea

**[31:13]** of how long the movements take with no breaks,

**[31:17]** no transitions, no rest, et cetera.

**[31:19]** This is where this starts to get a little bit tricky

**[31:21]** with this workout.

**[31:22]** But again, we're doing examples

**[31:24]** and you guys are at home, you're making omelets,

**[31:27]** where breaking eggs are making an educated guess,

**[31:31]** and then you have data afterwards to back it up.

**[31:34]** So most of the people that are listening to this podcast

**[31:37]** can do roughly 10 wall walks in a minute,

**[31:42]** somewhere in that range.

**[31:43]** Colton Mertens does 20 wall walks in a minute.

**[31:46]** Stupid.

**[31:47]** Yeah, but we find that that elite level,

**[31:51]** four seconds of rep, and then a lot of people

**[31:55]** end up averaging out to about six seconds per rep,

**[31:57]** somewhere in that range.

**[31:58]** So we got five and a half minutes of steady wall walks

**[32:02]** in this workout.

**[32:03]** So I give you a little bit of information

**[32:05]** on what style of workout this is.

**[32:07]** That should, like while you're doing this exercise,

**[32:10]** the reason we go in this order is because

**[32:12]** that should mean something to you.

**[32:13]** Five and a half minutes of wall walks.

**[32:15]** And we all know what happens on those wall walks.

**[32:19]** Especially if it's sweaty and you gotta like switch spots

**[32:21]** cause your oil slick is in the wrong area

**[32:24]** and you start to slide down.

**[32:26]** about five and a half minutes there, 55 deadlifts.

**[32:28]** Deadlifts are like a second to two seconds.

**[32:31]** So we'll call that a second and a half,

**[32:33]** and that is a minute 22.

**[32:35]** So there's only six,

**[32:38]** there's only about seven minutes of work

**[32:41]** in this whole workout.

**[32:42]** So again, that should kind of tell you guys something.

**[32:46]** Is this workout going to take seven minutes?

**[32:48]** No, no, it's not.

**[32:49]** Next would be transitions and breaks.

**[32:52]** So how many times do we have to transition?

**[32:55]** Like everyone has to transition in the workout

**[32:57]** and the breaks would be a little bit more personalized.

**[32:59]** With this one right here, we have six rounds of a couplet,

**[33:02]** so that would insinuate 12 transitions,

**[33:04]** but you don't transition into the first movement,

**[33:06]** you don't transition out of the last movement,

**[33:08]** so that's 10.

**[33:09]** We will use some nice round math here,

**[33:11]** five seconds per transition.

**[33:13]** I know you guys are thinking you're not taking five seconds,

**[33:15]** some of you are taking 19 seconds.

**[33:17]** So, I'll just put that out there.

**[33:19]** So that's an extra 50 seconds right there.

**[33:21]** I calculated for a pretty good strategy

**[33:24]** for like a high level quarterfinals athlete to, you know,

**[33:28]** sort of bubble semi-finals athlete, 22 breaks.

**[33:32]** And that has to do with like starting to think

**[33:35]** about the wall walks and sets of three,

**[33:38]** and then starting to chunk up the deadlifts a little bit.

**[33:40]** If those are five second transitions as well,

**[33:43]** that's a minute 50.

**[33:44]** So we have a nine and a half minute workout here

**[33:48]** with like, that's some pretty damn good execution

**[33:51]** on a workout like this.

**[33:52]** And again, that starts to give you like,

**[33:54]** I have with transitions and breaks, I have 32.

**[33:58]** I have 32 of those built into that.

**[34:02]** And it's still only nine and a half minutes.

**[34:05]** But if you were thinking about this page,

**[34:06]** this is like 11 minutes for you roughly.

**[34:09]** And you did some extra reps.

**[34:10]** Yeah, on accident.

**[34:12]** Good thing I was told.

**[34:14]** So at a competition, a sub 10 wouldn't be insane.

**[34:19]** Correct.

**[34:19]** I'd be shooting for that.

**[34:22]** I was just about to look at what my double under one was from 2021.

**[34:26]** I was just curious.

**[34:27]** I should have looked earlier.

**[34:28]** Yep.

**[34:29]** Some of those were fast.

**[34:30]** Yeah.

**[34:31]** I really did like that workout too.

**[34:32]** Anyway.

**[34:34]** So again, we're defining our total reps.

**[34:36]** We're either doing reps per second or reps per minute.

**[34:39]** We're adding in our transitions and breaks.

**[34:41]** We're doing a little bit of math.

**[34:43]** Again, with the amount, like the power that you hold in your hand at all times

**[34:47]** now, like you can get a little bit of help real fast on this stuff.

**[34:51]** But I do recommend trying to do it yourself until it reaches the point where the math

**[34:55]** is too annoying so that you can actually just understand a little bit more.

**[34:58]** And again, you are figuring out where you fit into this whole world.

**[35:04]** And for me, after working with an athlete for a while, it's usually a little bit easier

**[35:08]** to just like, I don't even do the transitions and breaks.

**[35:10]** I'm like, this is going to take this chunk of the workouts taken going to take about

**[35:14]** this long.

**[35:15]** This part is going to take about this long, that sort of thing.

**[35:17]** Now, one that happens all of the time that is a big issue is AMRAP math.

**[35:22]** So let's say we used the 20-minute AMRAP from the open with the deadlift double-under row.

**[35:30]** What's important there, especially at like an intermediate level of fitness and skill,

**[35:36]** is that you do the math on how many deadlifts and double-unders you're going to be doing.

**[35:40]** Because we're going to ask you, the open announcement happens, we do a podcast, we talk you guys

**[35:45]** through it and we basically say, row as slow as you need to, to then go crush the other

**[35:49]** two movements and get right back on the rower.

**[35:51]** And a lot of people just need to realize that they have to do hundreds and hundreds and

**[35:55]** hundreds of double unders.

**[35:57]** And sometimes CrossFit's asking for 90 to 100 plus deadlifts and that just takes its

**[36:05]** toll on a certain level of athlete that isn't getting the level of exposure there.

**[36:10]** So doing that math, doing out a round and just being like, I think a round is going

**[36:13]** take me two minutes, oh my goodness, that's 10 rounds? How much work is there in that?

**[36:18]** And it's like, you have to think back on have I done a workout like that? Do I know how I can

**[36:24]** sort of handle that? That sort of thing. So AMRAP math is really important. Athletes at the highest

**[36:28]** level will hit them with a 20 to 30 minute AMRAP and they don't do the math. And they had the right

**[36:35]** strategy for a 14 minute AMRAP. And then they're like, I didn't realize that if I stayed at that

**[36:39]** at pace I would do 79 muscle ups,

**[36:41]** and I'm probably not gonna do 79 muscle ups.

**[36:44]** Anything to add on the athlete IQ side page?

**[36:48]** I think with- For testing.

**[36:49]** Yeah, I think you've covered a big part of it.

**[36:52]** I think people underestimate

**[36:55]** how powerful this type of exercise is.

**[36:57]** It takes some time to do, it takes practice.

**[37:00]** I feel very lucky when I go to a competition

**[37:03]** and Drew sends me a screenshot of the Excel sheet

**[37:05]** so I can just see it,

**[37:08]** but I'm doing it in my training.

**[37:12]** You have to take the time to do something like this

**[37:15]** to really start to learn about yourself.

**[37:17]** If you want to find a 20-minute AMRAP,

**[37:21]** you find that at the 14-minute mark

**[37:23]** is where you always fall off.

**[37:25]** Okay, so there is a strategy thing in there

**[37:27]** that needs to change.

**[37:28]** So it's just a really powerful exercise to try

**[37:31]** if you haven't done it.

**[37:32]** And if you are doing it, keep doing it.

**[37:34]** All right, coaching.

**[37:35]** So when we are testing and this bleeds much stronger

**[37:40]** in the competition realm, but definitely in testing,

**[37:43]** the ego presents itself more often in testing

**[37:46]** than it would training.

**[37:48]** And having someone to talk through,

**[37:51]** what does it feel like to put that many deadlifts together

**[37:56]** with that many wall walks?

**[37:58]** You know, we can run into low back issues,

**[38:01]** maybe if it was handstand pushup overhead squat

**[38:03]** was one of the classic ones back in the day

**[38:05]** where people said it felt like someone was hitting their low back with a baseball bat.

**[38:09]** But just having that like sanity check on your idea.

**[38:14]** And then if you are in the kind of situation where you actually can have someone there

**[38:17]** with you, or you're just playing the game of like, egos the devil on one shoulder, coaches

**[38:23]** the angel on the other shoulder, like, I feel pretty good, nine seconds into this workout,

**[38:28]** let me just creep up to 600 watts on the Echo bike and see if I can hold that for the next

**[38:33]** 20 minutes.

**[38:34]** So the coaching or using the telegram group or using your peer group and just understanding

**[38:42]** really what the workout is and how you're going to how you're going to attack it is

**[38:47]** incredibly important.

**[38:48]** And the better more developed your athlete IQ is, the less you need this for setting

**[38:54]** a baseline type test, because you're going in, you're getting your numbers, you're probably

**[38:58]** add a little bit of a lower RPE ceiling kind of a thing,

**[39:04]** and you just wanna see where you're at,

**[39:05]** so then you can have good data and go work on things.

**[39:08]** But really, just, it's one thing I'm struggling with

**[39:12]** right now is not just jumping into all the notes

**[39:15]** that I have in my brain for training.

**[39:17]** So again, we're setting that baseline,

**[39:19]** and it's really important to look at notes

**[39:23]** to again, rely on other people and get into that.

**[39:25]** Where would you say you take RPE in setting a baseline test

**[39:31]** versus a retest versus an in-person competition?

**[39:35]** I feel like I haven't done the test retest in a while,

**[39:39]** just with the way the season has kind of flowed for me.

**[39:41]** But I was actually just thinking about this of like,

**[39:44]** okay, especially for those that have kind of been

**[39:47]** misfits for a while, we do these phases.

**[39:50]** We, you guys have time off at some point within the year,
