---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382"
published: 2026-01-07
episode_number: "382"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:54"
chunk_end: "49:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382 - Chunk 5

Episode: [Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[39:54]** We're not trading every single year and you have the ebbs and flows.

**[39:58]** So, when I think, McKenna and I have this conversation too of like,

**[40:02]** it's really hard. People get really, really worked up when it comes to the test, right?

**[40:07]** The test week. You feel that anxiety kind of creep up a little bit more, but it's like,

**[40:12]** you are getting a baseline and for some, it's like, well, I'm not where, like,

**[40:18]** I haven't been doing X on the rower. Like, my aerobic is not there. My anaerobic feels

**[40:23]** is not there, my paces are going to be lower. Yes, maybe, but also like you're not starting

**[40:28]** from scratch again. Like you're starting at a baseline that's a little bit higher than

**[40:33]** what it was say two years ago, right? So it's like, it's okay if your scores in test week

**[40:39]** aren't perfect or if your numbers are lower than where you think they should be. It's

**[40:43]** like I've had to start over with CrossFit so many times, but my baseline has always

**[40:50]** raised up a little bit more. It's never way down here. I'd say for me, there's probably

**[41:00]** a little bit more pressure when it comes to the retest week and then obviously competition,

**[41:04]** the highest. But I try to really remind myself personally to have grace through test week.

**[41:12]** I'm still going to give my best effort, but I have to accept that my best effort is enough.

**[41:17]** So, you know, I've had athletes who, you know, have had to take time off from injury.

**[41:22]** And it's like, your numbers aren't going to be where you want them to be.

**[41:25]** But like, we're going to set a baseline again.

**[41:27]** And still, that baseline is going to be higher than you think it is because you have built such a base under you.

**[41:32]** Yeah.

**[41:33]** Yeah. That great question because I was just thinking about that in my head.

**[41:38]** So yeah, that's kind of where I stand with that.

**[41:41]** What's funny about it is we're using RPE and perceived is a very important word in there

**[41:49]** because a lot of people think that they live in that nine to 10 range of maybe rate of

**[41:57]** exertion, not rate of perceived exertion.

**[42:02]** And perception changes within, we talked about all the elements of how you're actually feeling,

**[42:08]** But it also changes within the environment itself.

**[42:11]** So like, I want an athlete to be trending up into that 8 to 9 range when they're setting

**[42:21]** a baseline.

**[42:22]** But what is so incredibly important in developing your athlete IQ is knowing that most workouts

**[42:29]** are supposed to go similar start to finish and just get harder as you go.

**[42:35]** So many people go way faster at the beginning and then slow down.

**[42:40]** So when we are testing, especially when we're setting a baseline, I almost always want someone

**[42:46]** to start slower than they want to.

**[42:48]** And the funny thing is that it often leads to somebody just pacing well and doing well.

**[42:52]** But RPE and these things, it's such a challenging topic and such a fascinating topic to me because

**[43:00]** in the wrong hands telling someone to back off a little bit, like they back way off.

**[43:06]** Right. Yep.

**[43:07]** And then it's like, well, there was no, there's almost no point to what you just did. It was like

**[43:11]** a long, like, like that, like zone three, like just no one knows why, why, what are we doing here?

**[43:18]** Why are we, you know, sort of in this place? So it's always fascinating to me to work with

**[43:24]** athletes on an individual level and figure out what the right explanation is of that.

**[43:29]** because you can pace something well and like it. Listen, if you're setting a baseline and you

**[43:34]** see the light at the end of the tunnel and you want to stomp the gas pedal and you know it's not

**[43:39]** going to screw up your score, I love that, right? But I will tell you right now that, you know,

**[43:44]** a 154 becomes a 153 or a 152 in a retest and like a 150 or a 149 in competition. And they all feel

**[43:54]** like you are taking yourself to that place. And you kind of are for the environment. But

**[44:00]** understanding the differences there, I think is really important. And you and I had a moment this

**[44:04]** year at WFP2 where we knew, I knew beforehand that you were going to need to go harder,

**[44:13]** but I wanted you to see it first. And you said something before I did. You were like,

**[44:19]** if I don't go harder on these machines,

**[44:24]** I will not keep up with these girls.

**[44:26]** It won't happen.

**[44:27]** So like, I think I know what my pace needs to be,

**[44:29]** but it's like, I might as well try to go that fast

**[44:32]** because otherwise I'm gonna come in 15th to 20th

**[44:36]** on this workout and that's not where I need to be.

**[44:39]** And those moments are so important, right?

**[44:42]** Like you can get the stimulus and the benefit

**[44:45]** in testing and training from the paces you were going at.

**[44:49]** But when you're at that place where it's,

**[44:51]** I kind of have to go there or else,

**[44:55]** it's cool to see how athletes can level up

**[44:57]** and find out a little bit more about themselves.

**[45:00]** Yeah, you rise up to that level of competition

**[45:05]** that's there, right?

**[45:06]** So in training, that's really hard to do,

**[45:08]** especially if you're training by yourself,

**[45:10]** but sometimes you gotta just fuck around to find out.

**[45:13]** It's true.

**[45:14]** It is very true.

**[45:15]** Okay, so if you're looking, so we're moving on to how to execute in training.

**[45:20]** And I'm wondering when you look at the list of bullet points for testing, which ones feel

**[45:25]** the most relevant for training, which don't, and then we'll talk about how athletes need

**[45:31]** to actually personalize training to get better at it.

**[45:33]** I mean, definitely the athlete IQ stuff really comes into play here.

**[45:37]** Your warm ups, cool downs, you know, the things you can control essentially.

**[45:44]** I think that athlete IQ is definitely the biggest one for me that I'm like.

**[45:47]** And how to use it in training is different.

**[45:50]** So I think this part will be fun and hopefully a little enlightening for people.

**[45:55]** So when you will use Misfit athletics as the example, but hopefully no matter what program

**[46:01]** you follow, you know what the intention of the workout is through coaches notes, you

**[46:08]** know, stimulus definitions, et cetera.

**[46:10]** When you do the athlete IQ exercise for a training piece, you're getting a general idea

**[46:18]** of what a good strategy would be within a workout.

**[46:22]** And then we are going to turn certain knobs up and down to create what will help move

**[46:28]** the needle for you specifically.

**[46:29]** So we have that athlete IQ exercise and we have defined that we're going to try to do

**[46:34]** this many burpees in a minute.

**[46:36]** And we're going to hold this pace on the machine.

**[46:38]** we're going to break the barbell up into these sets or the gymnastics up into these sets.

**[46:43]** And that would give you the best score.

**[46:45]** That is our baseline.

**[46:46]** And again, an exercise that should be done as often as you have time to actually do it.

**[46:51]** But then you need to know within the stimulus and within your own strengths and weaknesses,

**[46:58]** which thing that you need to work on.

**[47:01]** I found out the hard way that if you say to someone, we're going to go hard on the skier

**[47:06]** today in an 18 minute AMRAP, they might take that so literally, as in like, like an eighth

**[47:13]** gear to P3 kind of speed. And it's like, okay, so if we were gonna hold 900 cows per hour,

**[47:21]** and we were gonna go unbroken on the other movements, we are going to go 1000 cows per

**[47:26]** hour or 1100 cows per hour, and we're going to take one to two strategic breaks elsewhere

**[47:32]** so that we can arrive back around at that thing

**[47:36]** to overreach a little bit each time,

**[47:38]** but stay within the confines of the time domain

**[47:42]** that we would be looking for.

**[47:44]** If you're always gaming workouts,

**[47:47]** you're not gonna find the places to improve.

**[47:51]** There's part of athlete IQ is fucking up

**[47:55]** and going too fast and going too slow

**[47:58]** and going unbroken in a place that you should,

**[48:00]** were like one of my favorite examples of the like reverse situation of that is Helen. If you don't

**[48:07]** run absurdly hard in round one of Helen, you get done and you're like, and I know like 21 and 12

**[48:14]** with the kettlebell swings and the pull ups isn't what it used to be. But like, that's kind of part

**[48:18]** of it. And I think one of the reasons why it's fun to see that at like a games level, because it's

**[48:23]** like, well, if everyone's gonna have the same rep speed indoors, what matters? Yeah, exactly. And

**[48:30]** And for whatever reason, based on the energy system, you know, based on being fresh and

**[48:35]** almost being able to breathe your way through and have a break, you really got to kind of

**[48:39]** stomp the gas pedal. So those mistakes are important as well. Backing off and leaving

**[48:43]** too much on the table and seeing where that's at. But if we're always gaming the workout and trying

**[48:48]** to get the absolute best score that we can, you're going to leave a ton on the table with

**[48:52]** overreaching and specific segments of a workout and a ton on the table with screwing up so that

**[48:59]** that you can adjust your athlete IQ.

**[49:01]** Yeah, I don't know.

**[49:02]** I don't have much to add to that.

**[49:03]** This kind of hit the nail on the head.

**[49:05]** So again, you are given the style of workout

**[49:09]** at Misfit Athletics.

**[49:10]** If it's a cardio piece, we hope to God

**[49:13]** that it's either short enough that you can just be smooth

**[49:15]** and unbroken with fast transitions,

**[49:17]** or that we've given you a movement

**[49:20]** that is individually paced.

**[49:21]** Wall balls are not individually paced.

**[49:23]** Chest to bar pull-ups are not individually paced.

**[49:25]** rowing, burpees, box jumps, things of that nature,

**[49:29]** you bring the pace to.

**[49:30]** You need to know how fast you can go on that machine

**[49:34]** or how slow you need to go to have a quick transition,

**[49:38]** go unbroken on the movement,

**[49:39]** and unbroken has different definitions.

**[49:42]** If it's drop and reset singles on a power clean

**[49:44]** because you don't get points for the negative,

**[49:45]** that's not a big deal.

**[49:47]** But that's what that workout is.

**[49:48]** A gas stimulus workout,

**[49:50]** we want you to be overreaching a little bit.
