---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382"
published: 2026-01-07
episode_number: "382"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:53"
chunk_end: "59:49"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382 - Chunk 6

Episode: [[../episode|Testing, Training, Competing: Knowing the difference and getting the most from each - E.382]]

## Transcript

**[49:53]** And that is one of the ones

**[49:54]** where I'm gonna try to define the weakness on the athlete.

**[49:59]** And I'm gonna tell them,

**[50:00]** want your chest to bar pull-ups to be unbroken.

**[50:02]** And I know that you can do it.

**[50:03]** And I know that it's gonna make your heart

**[50:05]** go through the roof.

**[50:06]** And that's just what we're doing today,

**[50:07]** that sort of thing.

**[50:08]** So again, we're finding the place

**[50:11]** where we can overreach a little bit within that.

**[50:13]** And then the muscle endurance ones

**[50:15]** are the most obvious ones ever.

**[50:17]** And those are ones where you put more eggs in the basket

**[50:20]** of a specific movement more often than not,

**[50:23]** you're like, yep, if I do those handstand pushups in two sets, instead of four, I'm

**[50:29]** going to have some trouble, but I'm going to overreach so that then in competition,

**[50:32]** maybe I can go three and sort of have that there.

**[50:35]** One caveat that I'll throw in with the muscle endurance pieces, if you don't have muscle

**[50:38]** endurance, I know a person that doesn't have muscle endurance.

**[50:42]** Yeah, you just kind of deal with it as you go because it's not actually specifically

**[50:49]** related to a movement.

**[50:50]** aerobic dysfunction and that's kind of worked on in different areas. So maybe we would be pacing

**[50:57]** if you're a power athlete a little bit more when it comes to that stuff. One beautiful thing here

**[51:02]** is that we have intervals and we can learn so much from intervals. We can really like the athlete IQ

**[51:08]** exercise is ongoing the whole time, which is a beautiful thing. So even if you're ignoring

**[51:13]** the fact that you should be doing it before you start, or asking a coach to help you do it before

**[51:18]** you start, you see your time, right?

**[51:20]** Like I love doing like, like having either a Garmin or an Apple watch or a

**[51:25]** phone nearby to do lap timing.

**[51:26]** That can be so incredibly helpful.

**[51:29]** Or you're doing the AMRAP and you're just logging your score down and as you're

**[51:32]** working your way through it again, it's like, was that the right pace?

**[51:35]** Am I going to be able to do that again?

**[51:36]** Am I going to be able to go a little bit harder there?

**[51:39]** Guessing and checking and your split times is what happens on the other

**[51:44]** side of the athlete IQ exercise that we did.

**[51:47]** So you guessed how long is this workout going to take me?

**[51:50]** How many times am I going to have to break it up?

**[51:52]** Like how am I going to do in this workout,

**[51:55]** both from a strategic standpoint and a score standpoint?

**[51:58]** You got to write that down on a piece of paper

**[52:01]** and then, you know, put a slash next to it

**[52:02]** and write what actually happened next to it.

**[52:04]** That's where the money is really made.

**[52:07]** And so much of this conversation comes from observing

**[52:12]** people who excelled in the sport

**[52:13]** while we were still trying to figure out what the sport was.

**[52:17]** And they were doing these exercises because they were obsessed,

**[52:20]** and it was just what they did and how they learned.

**[52:23]** So it's like, you're just eavesdropping on five games athletes sitting there.

**[52:28]** I went 6-5-4. I went unbroken.

**[52:31]** Oh, I did two sets. I did this.

**[52:33]** Yeah, but you transitioned really slow here.

**[52:35]** What were you holding on the bike on that?

**[52:37]** Like, how did you get off the bike so quick?

**[52:38]** How did you feel when you did that?

**[52:40]** Like, oh, you just went right over and picked the barbell up.

**[52:43]** How did you do that? Was it a small set just to like, I can get this started? Like these conversations

**[52:48]** were so fascinating to hear because then there again, a real way for athletes to improve on like,

**[52:56]** I think I can do this. And then I did this. And there was a lot of like meathead behavior of like,

**[53:02]** I'm old and 1500 cows per hour. And then it's like, but that's why you lost. Like, was it fun

**[53:08]** to be in front? Like, was it cool? Maybe it was that kind of thing. So that's where a lot of that

**[53:12]** conversation came from. And then the leveling up version of it is basically just re-referencing the

**[53:20]** the lap timer. Like what were your splits? You know, a lot of people have videos, you can just

**[53:25]** quick zoom through the video and mark on the video where you were at. Like there's a bunch

**[53:29]** of different ways to do this. Again, I like to use the watch because I like to know in real time.

**[53:33]** Other people probably don't want to be dicking around with a wearable, you know, while they're

**[53:38]** their mid workout and at 190 beats per minute or something like that.

**[53:42]** But your splits in these workouts give you so much information.

**[53:47]** Yeah.

**[53:48]** You ended up at this spot, but how much did you leave on the table by being a minute faster

**[53:53]** per round at the beginning versus the end?

**[53:55]** Yeah.

**[53:56]** I like to think about it for myself.

**[53:59]** If I see it's say five rounds for time and my guess is that a round is going to take

**[54:04]** me around three minutes.

**[54:06]** If I end up with my score being instead of 15 minutes or under 15 minutes and I'm at

**[54:12]** 17 or something, okay, well, where did I go wrong?

**[54:16]** What was my breakdown point?

**[54:18]** What did go well?

**[54:19]** What didn't?

**[54:20]** Journaling all these notes and the feedback you give yourself, you take that into, oh,

**[54:25]** here's another five round workout.

**[54:27]** Okay, maybe it's not a three minute per round kind of workout.

**[54:30]** It's maybe a two minute.

**[54:31]** Can I stick to a pace that I'm trying to hold or anything like that?

**[54:36]** that guess and check really, it is very valuable.

**[54:38]** It doesn't always have to be like, you know,

**[54:41]** it's not a perfect equation, you know,

**[54:42]** we're humans, we have good days, bad days too.

**[54:45]** I think one of my favorite.

**[54:46]** Dude, try doing an athlete IQ exercise at Rogue

**[54:49]** when it's like there's 30 seconds of work

**[54:51]** and it takes two hours.

**[54:52]** Like, the back squat workout.

**[54:55]** It's like one of the back squat dumbbell,

**[54:57]** like just so simple on paper and like even the best

**[55:02]** of the best there were not near what you would expect a workout like that to be, for sure.

**[55:08]** Yeah, it was pretty rough. I think, you know, I'll use spiders on Mars as an example. One of the

**[55:16]** kind of coolest things to see as far as like when you talk about starting slower is think about like

**[55:24]** for some of my athletes, I'll use this as an example, but time to complete 75 calories. If you

**[55:30]** I didn't do the conversions here.

**[55:32]** If you hold a 158 split, it's five minutes and 15 seconds.

**[55:36]** If you hold a 157 split, it's five minutes and six seconds.

**[55:41]** So that's a nine second difference

**[55:43]** by just taking your split time down one second.

**[55:47]** And for some people, that extra effort

**[55:50]** to get those nine seconds can really cost them

**[55:54]** because they might-

**[55:56]** Especially when you go from a movement

**[55:58]** that is just repetitive to like, hi, hello, wall ball.

**[56:03]** Right, exactly.

**[56:04]** So I think it'll be really interesting to see how people

**[56:07]** approach that one, knowing that like, you know,

**[56:10]** we're really in open style prep, quarterfinal style prep.

**[56:13]** These are movements that you are going to see pop up.

**[56:15]** And now you really get to kind of figure out like,

**[56:18]** oh, you mean if I held a pace that was 50 cal per hour

**[56:22]** slower, I could have moved faster on the wall balls

**[56:25]** or the double unders.

**[56:26]** I could have transitioned faster.

**[56:28]** and actually save myself time.

**[56:31]** Yeah, I'm interested to see,

**[56:33]** because I put a lot of notes in there

**[56:35]** on that workout specifically with my athletes.

**[56:37]** So I'll be excited to kind of hear their feedback,

**[56:39]** but also from other athletes in Telegram,

**[56:41]** now kind of after listening to this

**[56:43]** and see how they approach it,

**[56:44]** if they take a different approach or not.

**[56:46]** Yeah, for sure.

**[56:47]** Okay, one reason why intensity should drop

**[56:52]** in training versus testing,

**[56:54]** and why your times will be slower,

**[56:57]** And why it's a good thing is technique.

**[56:59]** You are spending the majority of your time

**[57:02]** doing a movement in dynamic environments while training.

**[57:07]** And if you move like shit

**[57:09]** in the name of going a little bit faster,

**[57:11]** you will move like shit

**[57:12]** under super high intensity in competition.

**[57:14]** And I can tell you right now,

**[57:15]** every time we go to a major competition

**[57:19]** and the calendar rolls over,

**[57:20]** there's one, two, three, four, five less people

**[57:23]** at the bottom of the leaderboard that are moving like shit.

**[57:26]** And oftentimes they're the aerobic type athlete

**[57:30]** that can just kind of hang in it and stay at that

**[57:33]** pretty high intensity the whole time.

**[57:35]** They pace pretty well, but if they moved well,

**[57:37]** they'd be great.

**[57:38]** So the way that you move in training

**[57:41]** is so incredibly important and taking the extra time

**[57:44]** to say, I could do this in two sets

**[57:48]** with pretty good intensity and not super long breaks,

**[57:52]** but in training, I'm gonna do it in three or four sets

**[57:54]** and I'm gonna move incredibly well,

**[57:56]** makes it so that, again, we want this done.

**[57:59]** Really love this in intervals

**[58:02]** because we know the intensity is gonna be really high.

**[58:04]** And then I just wanna see beautiful movement from a person

**[58:08]** because then we know when shit hits the fan

**[58:11]** and you lock eyes with that athlete during a workout

**[58:14]** where they're in a moment

**[58:15]** where muscle endurance is becoming a problem

**[58:17]** and it's like that simple cue that's like,

**[58:19]** you're not using your hips,

**[58:21]** you're not getting your pinky knuckle over the bar,

**[58:23]** you're not raising, you're not leaning back,

**[58:25]** Paige, in your rope climb, something like that.

**[58:27]** You know that despite what my brain is telling me,

**[58:31]** I don't need to pull with my arms.

**[58:32]** I've done this a trillion times in training.

**[58:34]** I can lean back, which makes it easier for me

**[58:36]** to get my knees up and do this rope climb

**[58:38]** and less pulls, that kind of thing.

**[58:40]** So technique in training is so incredibly important.

**[58:45]** I cannot stress that enough.

**[58:46]** Does it need to be perfect?

**[58:48]** Are we trying to be gymnasts

**[58:49]** and Olympic weightlifters and all that?

**[58:50]** There's so much nuance within CrossFit and the sport of CrossFit when it comes to the

**[58:55]** way certain things are done.

**[58:57]** And there's different techniques that work, something that I've finally come around to.

**[59:02]** It only took me like 10 years to come around to.

**[59:04]** There used to be a way to do a movement and I would tell you exactly how it should be

**[59:08]** done.

**[59:10]** And yeah, that to me is one of the things that like is the barrier to entry to intensity

**[59:17]** on just a random Wednesday is you better be moving really damn well if you feel good enough

**[59:22]** to like stomp the gas pedal and trend towards a 9 or 10 rp.

**[59:27]** Yeah. And I think, you know, if you go in and you read a workout and, you know, for

**[59:32]** me, it is the road climb. Like I know I have a tendency to break down on that movement,

**[59:37]** you know, when the intensity is there. So in training, it's I keep it, I write it on

**[59:41]** my board above my workout of like lean back.

**[59:44]** Like I keep that cue somewhere where I can constantly see it because I know that there's
