---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Mad Jack: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.384"
published: 2026-01-21
episode_number: "384"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Nutrition"]
---

# Mad Jack: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.384 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Mad Jack: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.384](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits. All right, you can't take a bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said aye's on.

**[00:17]** Good morning, Misfits. You were tuning into a special edition Misfit Podcast.

**[00:22]** The Misfit affiliate programming Mad Jack phase starts one week from today, tomorrow,

**[00:28]** yesterday, somewhere around there, Monday, January 26th. It is a seven week long phase.

**[00:34]** We will be in the midst of the open and a lot of what we're doing and what we're talking about

**[00:38]** today is centered around that idea of what does a gym do during that time of year? How can you get

**[00:45]** your athletes ready? What coaches should be thinking about? All that good stuff. I personally

**[00:50]** like episodes like this where we are potentially talking about more broader range education and

**[00:57]** coaching as opposed to going through specific movement by movement because it just gives

**[01:02]** us an opportunity to let you guys know how we think about coaching, how we think about

**[01:07]** communicating with our coaches, all that good stuff.

**[01:10]** We have Miss Vicin Portland owner Hunter Wood back on the show today. Hello, Hunter.

**[01:15]** How are you?

**[01:16]** Oh, what's up?

**[01:17]** We will by popular and unpopular demand do live chat at the end of this episode so that

**[01:23]** all the cry babies can listen to all the information and then all of the fans of the chuckleheads.

**[01:30]** No, when people hop in just for programming episodes, there's like a few people, and honestly

**[01:38]** Hunter they might be your people, that are like, can you guys shut up and tell me what

**[01:41]** I need to know so I can leave?

**[01:43]** Yeah.

**[01:44]** It was actually just me, I just created 18 different usernames.

**[01:48]** He's signing up for nine affiliate programming accounts just so we can tell.

**[01:53]** So many free trials. That was all your sales calls?

**[01:56]** Okay.

**[01:56]** They're actually this is me.

**[01:57]** Yes. Yeah, they're all with Hunter. So we'll do that at the end of the episode. We'll check

**[02:00]** in with Hunter. Can give you guys a little bit of update on life in Colorado and pages. Got all

**[02:06]** kinds of new stuff going on. So we'll put that right at the end. Before we jump into the details

**[02:12]** of the Mad Jack phase, we've got a little bit of housekeeping here. Because we have more affiliate

**[02:16]** athletes and affiliate owners and affiliate coaches listening to this podcast. Get your

**[02:21]** ass in Telegram. It's the place where you can communicate with us. You can communicate

**[02:25]** with the other coaches that coach this program. You can communicate with other athletes that

**[02:30]** are at the affiliate. You can also kind of swim into the waters of what are the competitive

**[02:35]** athletes doing, all that good stuff. So get into Telegram. All of the emails that I send

**[02:40]** out related to Mad Jack will have Telegram links in them. It is free for everybody so

**[02:45]** So everyone can jump in and see what that's all about, whether they're signed up for the

**[02:49]** program or not.

**[02:50]** As always, we have four ways for you guys to support the show, to support what we do

**[02:54]** at Misfit Athletics.

**[02:55]** The easiest one is head to team misfit.com right now, click on sign up now and you get

**[02:59]** a two week free trial of Mad Jack at StreamFit, Sugarwad or Push Press.

**[03:04]** Or if you would like to see the first two weeks of the program, you can email me coach

**[03:08]** at misfitathletics.com.

**[03:09]** That is the type of programming that you will receive if you sign up directly on team misfit.com.

**[03:15]** individual programming, Lincoln bio on Instagram camp.

**[03:18]** We are one week out from camp.

**[03:20]** Three quarters of your staff is on this podcast right now.

**[03:25]** Caroline Spencer will also be there January 30th through February 1st,

**[03:29]** CrossFit roots.

**[03:30]** If you are an affiliate and you didn't know that we were having camp,

**[03:33]** remove yourself out from whatever rock you've been under.

**[03:36]** Shoot me an email if you'd like a little bit of a discount for you and your staff.

**[03:39]** We'd love to see you guys there.

**[03:40]** We've got like four,

**[03:41]** I don't know if it's a coincidence or not,

**[03:43]** We got like four or five affiliates in the state of Colorado now.

**[03:46]** Three of them are new.

**[03:47]** So join us.

**[03:48]** It's probably the best place to come and learn from us, especially as coaches.

**[03:53]** So that's in the Lincoln bio as well.

**[03:55]** You can also head to sharpentheaxco.com and snag yourself one of the remaining

**[03:59]** rain or shine collection shirts.

**[04:01]** And as always, this podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[04:05]** I've gotten into the bodybuilding world a little bit lately, just because I

**[04:09]** can't do a whole lot with where my back is at.

**[04:11]** And it sucks not to feel strong, but I have to go to a global gym in the afternoon, which

**[04:18]** means I need a non-STEM pre-workout, which they have.

**[04:22]** And there's definitely a difference.

**[04:24]** Derek from MorePlatesMoreDates, the Gorilla Mind guy, is a bodybuilder.

**[04:27]** So he's got the type of pre-workout that you can really notice a difference when you're

**[04:31]** going through like your final sets and pushing for, you know, controlling these eccentric

**[04:36]** phase, getting a few extra reps, that sort of thing.

**[04:38]** I notice a difference when I take it.

**[04:40]** So Gorilla Mode and go for the non-stem.

**[04:42]** It's great.

**[04:43]** Use the code word misfit at checkout

**[04:44]** or head to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit.

**[04:47]** Okay, Mad Jack.

**[04:49]** Where's this name come from?

**[04:50]** It is Mad Jack Churchill.

**[04:52]** And I was looking for a Jack of all trades

**[04:56]** because this is a very GPP-esque phase.

**[04:59]** This is one of my favorite side quests that I do.

**[05:02]** Maybe a couple hours in a day

**[05:04]** looking for the right person for this.

**[05:06]** And then maybe another hour or so

**[05:08]** going down a rabbit hole of who this person is.

**[05:10]** So let's read a little bit about Mad Jack.

**[05:12]** All right, Mad Jack Churchill was a musician,

**[05:15]** an athlete, an actor, an explorer, an archer, a surfer,

**[05:19]** and a widely read, highly articulate man

**[05:21]** who was interested in engineering and philosophy.

**[05:24]** But he was famous for leading his men into World War II

**[05:28]** with a bagpipe, bow and arrow, and a sword.

**[05:31]** By the way, there were machine guns in World War II,

**[05:33]** if you wanna think a little bit about that.

**[05:35]** The exploits are not PG.

**[05:38]** And as we know, this is a children's show,

**[05:40]** especially with Hunter on here.

**[05:41]** Definitely.

**[05:43]** But this dude was wild.

**[05:45]** And I watched another video this morning

**[05:48]** that talked about his life sort of after the war.

**[05:51]** And he's just like old school Renaissance man.

**[05:54]** Like he built remote control boats in his spare time for fun.

**[05:59]** Like there were, I didn't know there were RC boats

**[06:01]** in whatever 1950 or whenever this would have been.

**[06:05]** but a fascinating gentleman and the kind of person

**[06:10]** that is deserving of the name of an affiliate

**[06:13]** where we are going after all the things.

**[06:15]** What do you guys think of magic?

**[06:17]** Like, yeah.

**[06:18]** Yeah, I mean, I, you know,

**[06:19]** or if you're not gonna go into the exploits,

**[06:22]** I would say that, I mean, even just listening to the bio,

**[06:24]** right, like, what did you say?

**[06:26]** Like art, surfing?

**[06:28]** Yes, musician, athlete, actor, explorer, archer, surfer,

**[06:33]** and was into engineering philosophy,

**[06:35]** building boats and all this stuff

**[06:37]** once he was out at the military.

**[06:38]** Yeah, I mean, he probably could have stopped there

**[06:40]** and been like, guys get it?

**[06:41]** And like, okay, GPP, here we go.

**[06:43]** Yeah. Sure. Right.

**[06:44]** Then add the second half.

**[06:46]** He shot arrows at Nazis

**[06:47]** when he could have shot them with a gun,

**[06:50]** but it was a psychological warfare tactic.

**[06:53]** A lot of people think that some of Inglourious Basterds

**[06:55]** is based on Mad Jack, some of the lore behind it.

**[06:59]** Because he, for fun one night,

**[07:01]** him and another guy snuck into enemy territory and took 40 prisoners and made them carry

**[07:05]** all of their stuff back so that they'd be tired and not want to attack him. So like

**[07:10]** carrying their bombs.

**[07:11]** Crazy.

**[07:12]** Okay. That's not why you guys are listening to this podcast. Maybe we'll talk about Mad

**[07:16]** Jack a little bit after. So again, this is a seven week long phase. And so much of what

**[07:21]** we're going to talk about today is being a better coach when you have a more wide ranging,

**[07:26]** you know, sort of menu to choose from when you, when you are coaching throughout the

**[07:30]** but we do begin with the heavy days bias. It's going to be squat clean and front squat.

**[07:36]** Our heavy days, what we have found works best at the affiliate level is alternating between

**[07:42]** a standalone strength session and putting it in an actual workout. So you'll notice that, say,

**[07:48]** we'll squat clean heavy week one, and then week two, you'll have heavy front squats within the

**[07:52]** workout. Then you'll have front squats alone. And we sort of go through. I've talked about this

**[07:56]** maybe too many times, but I will say I love the pairing because it's very high skilled,

**[08:03]** especially at the affiliate level with the potentially lack of mobility within the front

**[08:08]** rack and the front squat position and the ability to work on it both in its dynamic form and the

**[08:14]** squat clean and then go back and really have someone set up coming out of a rack and move

**[08:19]** through space much more intentionally. I think it's a really good way to be able to teach and

**[08:24]** And obviously heading into the open, you're looking at, you know, front rack is at a premium

**[08:29]** in a lot of instances when it comes to the opening quarterfinals.

**[08:32]** So my question for you guys is when you think of the squat clean and or the front squat,

**[08:38]** what are the things that come into your head in terms of queuing and stuff that seems to

**[08:44]** work really well, say if you're going to do the like focus on one thing style of class

**[08:48]** and try to work athletes through that.

**[08:50]** I go page you on me too.

**[08:51]** Yeah, I'll go.

**[08:52]** I feel like it's hard to get people to understand sometimes the similarities of catching a squat

**[09:00]** clean and what you should look like in a standard front squat. Getting your butt between your heels

**[09:07]** and making sure that you're really trying to keep those elbows up in that nice upright position.

**[09:12]** Sometimes when we go for strength, I feel like that can get lost in the mix when you're just

**[09:16]** doing front squats. So really just trying to having them continue to think about the way that

**[09:22]** they're moving in their front squat and in their squat clean when they're catching a heavy barbell.

**[09:27]** Like, do we see similarities or do we see drastic differences and how can we start to get the two

**[09:32]** to look more similar? One of the ways too that that can be done is muscle clean, front squat

**[09:39]** complex, power clean, front squat, lower catch, kind of working your way through and like, can we

**[09:45]** figure all of this out, which for me, like my number one cue with the clean, whether

**[09:51]** it's the power clean or the squat clean, honestly, most levels is just that idea of that it's
