---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Mad Jack: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.384"
published: 2026-01-21
episode_number: "384"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:56"
chunk_end: "19:55"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Nutrition"]
---

# Mad Jack: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.384 - Chunk 2

Episode: [Mad Jack: New Misfit Affiliate Phase - E.384](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:56]** a continuous movement to kind of move your feet and pull up and then under versus the

**[10:02]** like heave and catch and have it crash down on you. And not just because it's technically

**[10:08]** correct to do that, to do it that way, but it also forces someone to keep more of a grip

**[10:13]** on the bar and to maintain some of that tension in the upper back. And the first time you

**[10:17]** actively pull and kind of do the thing where you're, you know, cueing to point the knuckles

**[10:21]** down and then turn into this position, you just feel so much stronger. But I think as

**[10:26]** you're working your way through the mobility aspect of all of this, when you have a position

**[10:32]** that feels uncomfortable, there's like a warning sign for a lot of athletes because at some

**[10:36]** point maybe it was like, I'm gonna dislocate my shoulders or my elbow. If you tell me to

**[10:41]** to hold onto the bar here.

**[10:43]** And then we get to a point where it's not.

**[10:44]** And it's like, you have to tell people like tight is strong.

**[10:47]** I want you to be uncomfortable in that bottom position

**[10:50]** as long as it's safe.

**[10:51]** Yeah, my note was actually gonna be what you just

**[10:53]** kind of referred to Drew as the like,

**[10:56]** so because we're doing both of these lifts in the phase,

**[10:59]** the front squat, front rack positioning is so relevant

**[11:04]** in like CrossFit in general.

**[11:05]** But once we get into the open,

**[11:07]** the amount of times we see a front squat, a thruster,

**[11:10]** We haven't seen as many shoulder overhead in recent years, but like certainly irrelevant

**[11:15]** movement have gone heavy overhead.

**[11:17]** Getting athletes to understand the hand position and the grip is super important.

**[11:22]** And when we take lots of times, you get affiliate athletes who are more than happy to front

**[11:25]** squat out of a rack because you can skirt around a little bit of mobility by just pre-setting

**[11:30]** in that sort of fingertip type grip, right?

**[11:33]** And it doesn't work super well when we try to translate that over to a clean.

**[11:37]** not going to advocate an athlete starts with a hook grip on a really tight back position.

**[11:42]** They extend, they jump, then they bring the elbows around and then you're saying like,

**[11:46]** hey, I want you to try to catch the bar between your collarbones and your index and middle

**[11:51]** finger, right? Like that's not a cue you would give an athlete. Instead, it's like, hey,

**[11:57]** like we need to, we need to like, we want that high elbow position, but also like a

**[12:02]** a stronger catch position is going to be a little bit fuller of a grip.

**[12:06]** I've personally relaxed my stance a little bit on this, mostly just because for me, I

**[12:12]** interact almost exclusively with the affiliate level athletes.

**[12:16]** And you can only, you know, someone who has spent 10, 15, 20 years sitting at a desk is

**[12:21]** not going to undo their thoracic spine and poor, you know, external shoulder rotation

**[12:27]** over the course of a class.

**[12:29]** we can try to emphasize those positions. And like everybody here knows that like the best

**[12:35]** mobility is going through like the range of motion, you know, is weightlifting effectively,

**[12:41]** right? It's like it's not, we can do plenty of front rack distractions and mobilizations

**[12:47]** and stuff like that and thoracic spine extension. And that is absolutely has a place at the

**[12:52]** kind of front end of the class to try to get athletes in the best position they are capable

**[12:56]** of, but from there it's trying to communicate kind of the common themes that apply to, you

**[13:03]** know, 95% of people. It's like, hey, I want a hook grip. I want you to receive the bar

**[13:07]** with the fullest grip you can. Fingertip grip is reserved for like, your mobility is really,

**[13:14]** really tough. And honestly, those athletes, like you don't see too many athletes whose

**[13:19]** mobility is extraordinarily poor, but they are like wildly strong in the clean, for example,

**[13:25]** It's like maybe they can get away with it in the squat.

**[13:27]** Especially the squat clean.

**[13:28]** Exactly.

**[13:29]** But when you add the dynamic element and the skill portion of the squat clean, a lot of

**[13:34]** that falls apart.

**[13:35]** So what you said, Drew, the active, a muscle clean does an excellent job of training that

**[13:40]** kind of continuous active pull.

**[13:43]** And it also helps athletes get comfortable.

**[13:46]** We tell Mark gave a great cue, you meet the bar, you don't beat the bar.

**[13:51]** like we want to pull the bar to the height that you are going to receive it.

**[13:56]** Lots of athletes, myself included, are more than happy to dive under that thing and let

**[14:01]** it bury us and inevitably gets dumped forward at a heavy enough weight.

**[14:05]** So trying to connect the dots between that pull, the turnover, and then getting it onto

**[14:10]** the shoulders in as similar of a position as you could as if it was coming right out

**[14:15]** of the rack.

**[14:16]** I like tricking people not because it's fun,

**[14:20]** or maybe like 10% because it's fun,

**[14:23]** but I like tricking people because you can remove

**[14:25]** that mental block of like one of the ones

**[14:28]** with the people saying they can't get into

**[14:30]** a certain position in the split jerk is like,

**[14:32]** all right, barbell in the front rack,

**[14:34]** bottom of a lunge with your knee on the ground,

**[14:35]** stand up a little bit, press the bar overhead,

**[14:37]** F off, take the swear counter, take that.

**[14:40]** With the clean, I can't get into this position,

**[14:43]** you just did a muscle clean,

**[14:44]** and that looks pretty good, that front.

**[14:46]** Right. For sure.

**[14:47]** Yeah.

**[14:47]** That looks pretty good right there.

**[14:49]** So it's like, okay, pause.

**[14:50]** Can we work on this?

**[14:51]** And the over-queuing of that front rack position

**[14:54]** is really what we're after.

**[14:56]** Like, I want you to try to get to that point

**[14:58]** because the further the bar comes down into your hand,

**[15:02]** whether your thumb is wrapped around it or not,

**[15:04]** the more tacked down that position is,

**[15:06]** the more leverage you have to get yourself

**[15:08]** into external rotation.

**[15:10]** Like, at the affiliate level,

**[15:12]** over-queuing can be really helpful

**[15:14]** because you can ask someone to go do that

**[15:17]** and then their thumb slips off and they're frustrated

**[15:19]** and you're like, no, no, no, pause for a second, right?

**[15:21]** Like that's a pretty good position you're in right now.

**[15:23]** It doesn't need to be perfect.

**[15:24]** I'm just not looking for your hands because you heaved

**[15:27]** and your hands were out wide

**[15:29]** and now your fingers are near your chin.

**[15:31]** Like that's not a good position.

**[15:32]** That's not a good position at all.

**[15:34]** Like your upper back is gonna cave

**[15:36]** because it doesn't have anything to push or pull against.

**[15:39]** Yeah, and I think when you get a day

**[15:41]** where it's just a front squat lift.

**[15:44]** Can't remember how many there are.

**[15:46]** There's at least first ones in, yeah,

**[15:48]** first ones in week three, some heavy fives, threes and ones.

**[15:51]** Like it's a really good time to emphasize like

**[15:54]** that's one thing that we'll talk about in a class.

**[15:56]** Maybe it's like the one thing we're gonna focus on

**[15:58]** is the upper back position

**[16:01]** and how you were able to set your upper back

**[16:03]** actually starts with like your grip on the bar

**[16:06]** and then how you kind of like set yourself underneath it

**[16:10]** before you even stand up out of the rack.

**[16:13]** Lots of folks tent like to because it's a comfort thing.

**[16:16]** Maybe it's a mobility thing.

**[16:17]** They bring their hands in.

**[16:19]** The further in you bring your hands,

**[16:21]** the easier it is for that kind of turtle shell position

**[16:24]** to show itself.

**[16:26]** So trying to work with athletes to find almost like

**[16:30]** the maximum width that their mobility allows,

**[16:33]** where we can still keep the elbows relatively high,

**[16:36]** we can still keep a relatively full grip on the bar,

**[16:39]** And then all of a sudden my upper back position,

**[16:42]** it doesn't become the limiting factor as much as,

**[16:45]** maybe it's hips, maybe it's just strength.

**[16:48]** That'd be pretty cool if it was just a strength

**[16:50]** that was a limiting factor, but for most,

**[16:52]** it's a mobility thing.

**[16:55]** If you're listening to this and you're an athlete

**[16:58]** that follows Misfit affiliate, congratulations,

**[17:01]** you're a hardo, we love it

**[17:03]** that you're listening to this podcast.

**[17:06]** I know that you've misfit Jim Portland, folks.

**[17:08]** Well, so this podcast gets the most listens.

**[17:12]** Because the audience, the potential audience is the most broad.

**[17:16]** We had a few folks in the survey ask, saying, end of your survey, they were like, oh, keep

**[17:20]** doing the affiliate podcast.

**[17:22]** So, um, like-

**[17:23]** Cool, very cool.

**[17:24]** There are folks who like listening.

**[17:25]** They're like, I mean, mostly just they want to know what's going on, but hopefully they

**[17:29]** take nuggets out there too.

**[17:30]** I still believe, this is one aggressive belief that I've held onto for a lot longer than

**[17:36]** and other ones that the front squat is a skill movement

**[17:39]** that you deadlift and you back squat

**[17:41]** and you do all of these movements

**[17:43]** and you do the greatest strength accessory program

**[17:45]** ever created in CrossFit in your Metcons.

**[17:48]** If you can get into really good positions

**[17:51]** in the front squat,

**[17:52]** you can pretend you're one of the strong people in class.

**[17:55]** And it's cool.

**[17:56]** Coming from someone who started CrossFit,

**[17:59]** like, you know, maybe 20, 30 pounds lighter

**[18:02]** than most of the people I was lifting with

**[18:04]** just obsessed over like, wow, well, that guy can front squat a lot.

**[18:07]** Look at the way he's doing that.

**[18:08]** Now the sad thing is front squat holds is probably the like extra

**[18:14]** credit I would give over a competitor extra.

**[18:17]** Yeah.

**[18:17]** Be like, get, get there early and see if you can like set a 10 minute

**[18:22]** clock and see if you, if you can accumulate five minutes of front squat holds.

**[18:26]** Now front squat hold means front squat hold, not like I'm in this

**[18:30]** crumpled up, terrible, terrifying position.

**[18:33]** So you might need...

**[18:34]** I just have a barbell.

**[18:36]** Yeah, exactly.

**[18:37]** Yeah.

**[18:38]** So, holding shitty positions is gonna do the thing that Hunter talked about in the reverse,

**[18:43]** in the negative connotation, right?

**[18:46]** Like if you wanna get really bad at movements, perform them regularly in the wrong way.

**[18:51]** And you're, you know, you're like from a neurological standpoint, you're just, your body's gonna

**[18:55]** wanna move that way, especially under fatigue.

**[18:57]** So like if you need to raise your heels, if you need a box to sort of cue the position

**[19:03]** and then come up, whatever.

**[19:04]** But that's one of those things.

**[19:06]** Or maybe you just don't start with the bar in the front rack

**[19:08]** and you get squat holds in a really good position

**[19:11]** and then at least get you loose for class.

**[19:13]** When you say it's a skill-based movement, do you?

**[19:15]** So I don't disagree.

**[19:17]** I think of it more as mobility.

**[19:21]** Are you using that interchangeably with skill?

**[19:23]** Or are you saying like, because when I hear skill,

**[19:26]** I think of a level of like athleticism

**[19:28]** and like everybody here knows like,

**[19:31]** just because you're a CrossFitter

**[19:32]** doesn't mean you're an athlete, you know?

**[19:34]** Sure.

**[19:34]** To a certain extent.

**[19:36]** Mobility wouldn't be enough because there's,

**[19:38]** we have our hypermobile and we have our not so strong

**[19:42]** individual, so there's a level of stability there,

**[19:45]** and you can still watch someone that could be

**[19:49]** in the right positions, and there's just something weird

**[19:52]** mechanically about the way that their hips and knees
