---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Kitchen Sink Episode: AG Semifinals Workouts, Del Mar & Magic City Recap, Telegram Q&A E.398"
published: 2026-05-05
episode_number: "398"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "10:00"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Kitchen Sink Episode: AG Semifinals Workouts, Del Mar & Magic City Recap, Telegram Q&A E.398 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Kitchen Sink Episode: AG Semifinals Workouts, Del Mar & Magic City Recap, Telegram Q&A E.398](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're all Misfits! Alright, you better take a bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:11]** The biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said either.

**[00:17]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast on today's episode,

**[00:22]** Everything But the Kitchen Sink. We were going to jump into the off-season progression of,

**[00:29]** you know, from accessory work to skill to strength, all that.

**[00:32]** And we're still going to cover all of those episodes eventually.

**[00:35]** But we got too much stuff to talk about. We got age group,

**[00:38]** semi-finals workouts released. We're going to do kind of

**[00:41]** initial reactions there. We got to talk about Delmar. We got to talk about Magic City.

**[00:46]** I have a potentially scheduled rant. It's the same one as before.

**[00:51]** I just keep getting remad over and over. Like this season is stranger than fiction.

**[00:56]** It truly is. It could not be made up. Like, my favorite part, I'm going to start ranting now,

**[01:01]** my favorite part of professional sports, like, you know, I'm a huge football fan is when Tom Brady,

**[01:06]** like, didn't feel well before the Super Bowl. And he just called up Roger Goodell and Roger's like,

**[01:11]** don't worry about it, Tom. We'll let another team play. And then we'll redo the Super Bowl next week.

**[01:17]** And you can play in that Super Bowl. That's my favorite part about professional sports,

**[01:21]** is when athletes lose, they get to advance.

**[01:24]** And when athletes don't feel well or they're injured,

**[01:27]** they just get, you know, they make up a second chance.

**[01:31]** If you can't sense the sarcasm, I apologize.

**[01:35]** Holy shit.

**[01:36]** What is happening, Paige?

**[01:38]** What are they doing?

**[01:40]** I didn't mean to start the episode.

**[01:41]** I was triggered right before recording.

**[01:44]** What happened?

**[01:46]** What are they?

**[01:48]** Just athletes basically like, like, I think I'll just,

**[01:50]** I'll just say it because I actually don't think any of this is the athletes fault, the coaches fault,

**[01:54]** even the event organizers fault. Jason Hopper accepts his invite to the French throwdown. So

**[02:00]** basically his groin was bothering him going into mayhem. He wants two opportunities to qualify.

**[02:08]** I didn't know that. Basically last minute,

**[02:11]** he is now accepted his invite. I mean, I feel like he probably just called them, right?

**[02:15]** Yeah. Like I'm the fittest man on earth. I'm allowed to come, right? Yeah, of course. And

**[02:20]** And again, like, I don't have any issues

**[02:22]** with any of this stuff, but you watch Mayhem

**[02:25]** and then you watch the next weekend

**[02:26]** and like six of the girls are the same.

**[02:29]** No faults of theirs.

**[02:30]** They're gonna be the same as Syndicate

**[02:31]** and they're gonna be the same online.

**[02:33]** What in God's name is happening?

**[02:37]** Yeah.

**[02:38]** This is hands down the worst year.

**[02:41]** And that's saying something with the decisions

**[02:43]** that have been made.

**[02:44]** This is the worst that it's ever been.

**[02:47]** I just cannot wrap my mind around.

**[02:49]** My only guess is that they didn't make decisions.

**[02:52]** They just didn't quite know what to do

**[02:54]** and too much happened too fast and it snowballed

**[02:57]** and now it's like, this is what's happening.

**[03:00]** This is where we're at, yeah.

**[03:01]** It is crazy.

**[03:03]** So yeah, that's my favorite part of professional sports

**[03:05]** is you just keep get to retrying over and over

**[03:08]** when you lose.

**[03:09]** You just keep, I'll just go again.

**[03:11]** Come on, commissioner.

**[03:13]** Let me compete again.

**[03:14]** Do a 14th Super Bowl.

**[03:16]** Come on, it'll be fine.

**[03:18]** Okay, all right, yeah, so,

**[03:20]** and then we're gonna get into some telegram questions.

**[03:23]** So, we've got some really good questions in there,

**[03:27]** and we'll get to that.

**[03:28]** So it's just kinda a little bit of freestyle here.

**[03:31]** Housekeeping, to start.

**[03:33]** Age group, semi-finals athletes.

**[03:35]** If you are subscribed to comp or pro,

**[03:39]** you will receive an email tomorrow morning

**[03:42]** with a link for our group call to talk about the workouts.

**[03:46]** If you are not subscribed, you will not receive that link.

**[03:50]** Just kind of throwing that out there.

**[03:51]** So if you want to know what order we think you should go in,

**[03:55]** what your strategy should be, warmups, cool downs,

**[03:58]** mentality, asking specific questions.

**[04:02]** I've already got athletes that are like,

**[04:03]** I can only work out Saturday and Sunday.

**[04:06]** So there's a lot of different nuance there.

**[04:08]** It's Kenzie.

**[04:09]** It's Kenzie.

**[04:10]** That's shocker.

**[04:12]** Nevermind.

**[04:13]** Not concerned.

**[04:14]** Yeah, she's going to have somebody draw her doing the workouts instead of record them.

**[04:18]** So that will be tomorrow.

**[04:20]** I'm going to try to release this podcast as soon as possible.

**[04:23]** Normally Wednesday, 5 a.m. Eastern is when we drop these, but I'll try to get this one out a little bit sooner.

**[04:28]** If you live under a rock and did not hear, we have all we've come all the way back around to a new season with Misfit affiliate.

**[04:36]** Our affiliate programming runs in seasons so that we can sort of build upon what we've

**[04:43]** done in the past and make the changes that we need to make.

**[04:46]** And then we start to go into phases that are, you know, in the seven to nine week range

**[04:50]** and the very first one, the compound part one gets started this week.

**[04:53]** And you can get a free trial at stream fit, sugar watt or push press, or you can email

**[04:57]** me coach at misfit athletics.com.

**[04:59]** I will send you a sample and we can get on a call and talk about it a little bit.

**[05:02]** See if it's a good fit for you.

**[05:05]** mountain throwdown. I have not done the best job of talking about this, but luckily the

**[05:10]** workouts are being released currently on social media. So you can go check that out. And they're

**[05:14]** almost sold out in almost every division. Wow. And I will be there this year. The purple

**[05:19]** mountain throwdown is like a three, four hour drive for me. Nice. So I finally get to see

**[05:24]** it happen. And there are some doozy, doozy, doozy, doozy workouts, as usual, remember

**[05:30]** that as you could expect. So yeah, there are probably some divisions that are already sold

**[05:34]** out and some where there's still a few openings, but really excited for the purple mountain

**[05:39]** throw down.

**[05:40]** Excited to see you guys that got signed up.

**[05:43]** As always, this episode of the podcast and all episodes of the podcast are brought to

**[05:47]** you by Gorilla Mind, you can head to GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit or use the code word

**[05:53]** misfit at checkout.

**[05:55]** I'm going to sound like a broken record here, but I got into this whole world, even when

**[06:01]** When I started a supplement company and now partnering with Gorilla Mind, when you have

**[06:06]** to take 4,000 different supplements and you don't want to see my pantry, you don't want

**[06:12]** to see the amount of pill bottles and expiration date, all the different stuff.

**[06:20]** To be able to combine those things and make them convenient was the concept for proper

**[06:25]** and is something that Gorilla Mind does very well.

**[06:29]** The best thing that you can do post-workout for recovery after you lower your core temperature

**[06:35]** and flush on a machine a little bit is get protein, carbs, water, electrolytes, and creatine

**[06:42]** into your body.

**[06:43]** And again, when you have all of those things mixed and you make your own concoction, it

**[06:49]** doesn't mix well, it doesn't taste very good, and it's just a pain in the ass.

**[06:53]** If you're like me, also you get in trouble for having sprinklings of powder all over

**[06:56]** or every surface in your home.

**[07:00]** So here's what I recommend.

**[07:01]** Go to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit,

**[07:04]** get the vanilla ice cream whey protein

**[07:07]** and get the strawberry kiwi intro workout.

**[07:10]** If you mix water with that,

**[07:11]** you will have protein, carbs, electrolytes,

**[07:15]** water creatine altogether, and it tastes really good.

**[07:19]** I never would have thought just of the idea in general

**[07:24]** of my post-workout being on the fruitier side,

**[07:28]** it just never really entered my consciousness

**[07:30]** or that I would like it.

**[07:32]** I find that this is a lot easier to do on a daily basis

**[07:38]** than even, I thought proper tasted fantastic,

**[07:41]** but chocolate, chocolate, chocolate over and over to me

**[07:45]** was just harder to get down post-workout

**[07:49]** if I'm doing the same thing every day than this is.

**[07:52]** And they do have other flavors of both.

**[07:54]** So you can kind of mix and match, do your thing,

**[07:57]** depending on what flavor profiles you like.

**[07:59]** But I do find this is a little bit easier to get down.

**[08:02]** So guerrillamind.com forward slash misfit.

**[08:05]** The intras already 20% off currently.

**[08:07]** So you could try that out.

**[08:08]** And one scoop's got 40 grams of carbs in it.

**[08:11]** So you can make that.

**[08:12]** You can make that joke last a pretty long time.

**[08:14]** You save an additional 10%.

**[08:17]** And we get a kickback.

**[08:18]** You support the podcast.

**[08:19]** Everybody wins.

**[08:21]** I'd be curious to know what their chocolate one tastes like with coconut water, like how

**[08:25]** we mix proper.

**[08:27]** Because that was always a good mix.

**[08:28]** I'd be curious.

**[08:29]** I think Tony does that too.

**[08:30]** I wonder if chocolate and cherry is like a thing.

**[08:33]** I don't know if the chocolate, their chocolate would be good with the black cherry or the

**[08:38]** cherry blackout, whatever it's called.

**[08:40]** Yeah.

**[08:41]** That's extra.

**[08:42]** So that would be one to test.

**[08:43]** And I have all of that stuff anyways, because like I use the chocolate for, um, use the

**[08:49]** chocolate for my smoothie in the morning.

**[08:51]** And then I use the cherry intro when I go on like long bike rides and stuff like

**[08:55]** that. So yeah, if you try, let me know.

**[08:57]** I'll test that out and report back.

**[09:00]** Um, shout out of the week.

**[09:02]** I will go first.

**[09:04]** Coach page.

**[09:06]** So cool that you got to go do your first.

**[09:10]** We're, this is something that we're going to cover later in the podcast.

**[09:13]** Um, so I'm going to bury the lead entirely here, but for you to, you

**[09:19]** You started working with Gabe in 2015, 2016?

**[09:24]** I don't remember.

**[09:25]** 2018.

**[09:26]** No, 2018, 2018.

**[09:27]** Feels like that long ago.

**[09:29]** See, the time, the time, like 2018 was eight years ago.

**[09:32]** I can't do that in my head.

**[09:35]** It makes absolutely no sense.

**[09:36]** But I'm 40, okay?

**[09:38]** So maybe my mind's just going a little bit insane.

**[09:43]** So eight years ago starting and I think your map, your path to make it from that moment

**[09:52]** to starting the coaching program with me and starting to work with athletes and going to

**[09:57]** your first semi-final.
