---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Kitchen Sink Episode: AG Semifinals Workouts, Del Mar & Magic City Recap, Telegram Q&A E.398"
published: 2026-05-05
episode_number: "398"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:54"
chunk_end: "49:54"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Kitchen Sink Episode: AG Semifinals Workouts, Del Mar & Magic City Recap, Telegram Q&A E.398 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|Kitchen Sink Episode: AG Semifinals Workouts, Del Mar & Magic City Recap, Telegram Q&A E.398]]

## Transcript

**[39:54]** through their competitive journey,

**[39:56]** coaches and athletes that you have sounding boards

**[40:00]** and that you have a pretty decent chunk of time

**[40:03]** post-competition for reflection.

**[40:05]** A lot of times there's information

**[40:07]** that you want to deal with that's fresh,

**[40:09]** but then there's also like,

**[40:10]** we might want to give this a week or two,

**[40:13]** let the adrenaline come down,

**[40:15]** like kind of deal with all of this, that sort of thing.

**[40:18]** Yeah. Yeah.

**[40:19]** I mean, you know, being out there with Tony,

**[40:21]** having been home now for about, you know,

**[40:24]** a day and a half or so, like,

**[40:26]** I'm just excited to go and talk with him

**[40:28]** and get the feedback from him and work towards like,

**[40:33]** all right, what are we gonna focus on?

**[40:34]** How are we gonna do better?

**[40:35]** And like, how can we make our coach athlete relationship

**[40:40]** even better than what it already is?

**[40:42]** So, in an athlete like him,

**[40:44]** like he doesn't hold back, which I love,

**[40:47]** like, he doesn't have a ton of negative things to say ever

**[40:50]** in life, I think, but like, he's also very comfortable

**[40:55]** to be open and to also receive feedback.

**[40:59]** So like, you know, I'd say, you know,

**[41:02]** in a sense he's kind of a diamond in the rough

**[41:06]** when it comes to, you know, a good athlete, right?

**[41:08]** A coachable athlete.

**[41:10]** So I look forward to these types of things

**[41:12]** and I look forward to continuing our pursuit,

**[41:15]** you know, within.

**[41:16]** One really important thing here

**[41:17]** that I can use an example of from Del Mar.

**[41:20]** The rumor is that event one at Del Mar

**[41:23]** was supposed to be a long run

**[41:24]** And they got a big check from Stepper to use those machines.

**[41:28]** And that's where the triple twos came from.

**[41:32]** And I think it was supposed to be something like that,

**[41:35]** but with a run.

**[41:39]** Really did not like that workout.

**[41:42]** Like I didn't, I'm like, where the hell is this coming from?

**[41:44]** This doesn't make any sense.

**[41:45]** We don't know these machines.

**[41:47]** Like the unknown and unknowable is a thing,

**[41:50]** but like I don't think testing out equipment

**[41:54]** for the first time at a competition is really the best way to do it.

**[41:57]** And then that 10 damper thing, like from a outside perspective, looking in like it looked

**[42:04]** really stupid.

**[42:05]** Yeah, it looked like they were not fit.

**[42:07]** Like these are the fittest people in literally the fittest people in the entire world.

**[42:12]** And it looked visually very stupid.

**[42:15]** It was like, they don't even know what they're supposed to be doing.

**[42:21]** So I say all of that and then when you are a coach and an athlete, that's not a conversation

**[42:28]** that you have.

**[42:29]** It doesn't matter what you like and what you don't like.

**[42:35]** We're going to war.

**[42:36]** You know what I mean?

**[42:38]** Even if it was the correct triple twos or whatever it was supposed to be, that is a mountain

**[42:43]** of pain that needs the right headspace and it needs the right strategy.

**[42:48]** It needs all of those things.

**[42:49]** So you can have your opinions as a coach.

**[42:54]** You need to keep them to yourself until something like a debrief or you call someone and talk

**[43:01]** to them.

**[43:02]** You do not sit around and complain together.

**[43:05]** That is loser shit on a huge level.

**[43:09]** I think a lot of people get into that headspace, unfortunately, and then that's when we can

**[43:15]** build those excuses that people use to save themselves a little bit.

**[43:21]** Like, well, if it wasn't this, then I would have that kind of thing.

**[43:25]** So I didn't like it.

**[43:28]** I would never say that to the athlete.

**[43:31]** And if the athlete was venting about it, you find that path as quickly, without ignoring

**[43:38]** them, find that path as quickly back to the point of the whole situation as you can.

**[43:45]** That is incredibly important.

**[43:47]** So you can get on your podcast a couple weeks later and complain if you want.

**[43:54]** But in that moment, that's just not what you need as a coach.

**[43:57]** You're not going to be in the right headspace.

**[43:59]** The athlete's not going to be in the right headspace, like that kind of thing.

**[44:02]** And one of the ways that I tried to sell it was like, I don't know how many of your competitors

**[44:07]** are on machines as often as you two, but it's not going to be many.

**[44:13]** And we go long a lot and we do a lot of zone two and your ability to clear waste in that

**[44:18]** kind of setting with that 10 damper is going to be easier for you than it is for other

**[44:24]** people.

**[44:25]** And that there was no like blowing smoke up anyone's ass.

**[44:28]** Like I believe that that to be true.

**[44:31]** But again, with the amount of people entering their opinion into all of this nowadays,

**[44:38]** I think that like complainer, hater mentality can be brought into the competitive space.

**[44:45]** And I just want to make sure that coaches and athletes know that it just, it doesn't

**[44:47]** have any place there.

**[44:48]** If you've already arrived and you're ready to go, then you do what you can do.

**[44:53]** You adjust to the circumstances.

**[44:54]** That's how competition is going to feel anyways.

**[44:56]** Right.

**[44:57]** I mean, at the games, they throw things at you, right?

**[44:59]** They they'll put you on a different bike in 2019 than 2022.

**[45:05]** So it's like you as cliche as it sounds because it always is cliche like you have to control the controllables and as a coach

**[45:13]** You have to know

**[45:15]** When the right time is to bring something up and when to you know, leave it for another day

**[45:21]** And I do I do love having the athlete perspective in that as well

**[45:26]** Because I know there are things that I would want to hear and not want to hear at certain times

**[45:30]** So, um, to be able to bring that in, you know, into the space as a coach is,

**[45:36]** has been really valuable.

**[45:37]** And yeah, I mean, fortunately Tony had a great weekend and his head space was

**[45:43]** always in a good place.

**[45:44]** So we didn't really have that kind of issue.

**[45:47]** And this was also the first masters only CrossFit competition for

**[45:52]** like qualifying for a semi-final.

**[45:54]** Yeah.

**[45:54]** So like, you know, they're also making history here, which is really cool.

**[45:57]** And they actually brought out real bikes.

**[45:59]** bikes. So they had a burpee box jump over workout with burpee, it was bike and then

**[46:05]** burpee again. And even the masters in like the 65 plus were like, this is so amazing.

**[46:12]** We're having so much fun out here. And it's like, you know, they're bringing these implements

**[46:17]** into this, these divisions that the individuals have always had the opportunity to do. So

**[46:23]** it's like, bringing in new things can also be an opportunity to be like, wow, I'm the

**[46:29]** first that gets to experience this. Like how cool is that? So you know just again

**[46:34]** controlling the controllables of like I can control what I think about or how I

**[46:37]** think about something and as a coach being able to navigate that with your

**[46:41]** athlete. The vibes at a master's competition are very awesome. It was so

**[46:46]** cool. It's a different thing. It is. You know priorities are mostly different at

**[46:51]** that point right most of them have kids or most of them are you know well into

**[46:56]** their career of their job and their families and whatever.

**[47:00]** And they're honestly there to have a good time

**[47:03]** to inspire each other, to inspire their kids,

**[47:06]** like their purpose is different.

**[47:08]** And it was a ton of fun to be around.

**[47:10]** It was a ton of fun as an athlete

**[47:13]** that's competed individually for years.

**[47:15]** Like I was quiet, like I wasn't like, you know,

**[47:20]** walking around like, you know, with a games jersey on

**[47:22]** or anything like that.

**[47:23]** And to have people come up to me and be like,

**[47:26]** you are one of the hardest workers out there.

**[47:28]** It's really cool to see you here.

**[47:30]** Like that was cool.

**[47:31]** Yeah, like it definitely like hit home for me.

**[47:34]** And some of them are like,

**[47:35]** so when are you gonna be here?

**[47:37]** And I'm like, listen, I missed the cutoff by 10 days.

**[47:40]** Okay.

**[47:41]** I thought that this was the first year.

**[47:44]** I did too.

**[47:44]** Like, way back, like, yeah.

**[47:46]** So did I.

**[47:47]** And then I had to check the rule book.

**[47:48]** I'm like, how come I'm not on the master's leaderboard?

**[47:51]** And then the cutoff is the 14th.

**[47:53]** And I was like, oh, okay.

**[47:55]** But yeah, I mean, like that,

**[47:57]** for someone like me who is going to age up next year,

**[48:00]** it's like they, the age group qualifiers,

**[48:04]** the age group athletes, they all make it.

**[48:08]** Like they made me have, I had FOMO.

**[48:09]** Like I would look forward to competing in that division.

**[48:13]** You know, they may not get the recognition

**[48:15]** that individuals do, but they work their asses off

**[48:18]** and they have a good time doing it.

**[48:20]** and they have kids and they have lives to balance.

**[48:23]** And it's like, they're superheroes to their kids.

**[48:28]** And it's just so fun to see.

**[48:30]** That's like for love of the game type of stuff, right?

**[48:33]** That reminds me of like, I used to,

**[48:37]** until I started tearing my hamstrings every year,

**[48:39]** I used to go play in a baseball tournament in Arizona,

**[48:43]** like old dude baseball tournament.

**[48:47]** But it's all former pros, former college players,

**[48:51]** and you're playing at the stadiums

**[48:54]** for the Major League teams and stuff like that.

**[48:56]** And again, you're filtering down to a place

**[49:01]** where people are still really serious about it,

**[49:04]** but you know that they're doing it because they love it.

**[49:07]** It's not an obligation to them.

**[49:09]** And I think that does just change

**[49:12]** the attitude and the vibe there.

**[49:14]** Even after the tragedy at the 2024 games,

**[49:19]** I had a really hard time going to the Masters games.

**[49:25]** I think it was like a week later.

**[49:27]** Yeah, it was really-

**[49:28]** Like a week or two later, something like that.

**[49:30]** But all of my other coaches said that,

**[49:32]** or everybody other than Hunter said they weren't gonna go.

**[49:35]** And I just felt like I couldn't do that to my athletes.

**[49:40]** And it ended up being exactly what I needed.

**[49:42]** ended up being like, this is what this community is.

**[49:46]** This is why this community is worth saving and sticking around for and

**[49:52]** having your part in that.
