---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2"
published: 2026-04-15
episode_number: "367.2"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning Misfits, you are tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast. On

**[00:21]** this week's episode, we're doing a throwback to Hunter and I doing a deep dive on the Gears

**[00:26]** matrix 2.0 from last fall. If you're watching on YouTube, you see this lovely butterfly

**[00:34]** situation we got going on up here in the corner. I'm down in Florida. I brought the little

**[00:39]** man down to see my parents in Florida. So yeah, we've got the Gears Matrix episode.

**[00:44]** Ton of people are asking questions with new people on the program. I always think it's

**[00:47]** really good for people to brush up on this. We talk about the origins of it, the methodology,

**[00:52]** the concepts behind it, and then we talk about how to use it, which I think is really important

**[00:56]** for people, go over the different categories that we have, different pacing instructions,

**[01:00]** all that good stuff. Before I kick it back to Hunter and I from last year, a little bit

**[01:05]** of housekeeping, obviously, offseason block one has gotten started. This time of year

**[01:10]** is super fun for the coaching staff because we get people back on track, back on a path

**[01:16]** to reach their goals. And then we have sort of the sprinkling of people getting ready

**[01:20]** for the different and semi finals and competitions that are coming up. A reminder, if you are

**[01:25]** trying to do online semi-finals prep.

**[01:27]** That's going to get started here in two weeks on April 27th.

**[01:31]** We're going to do an extra channel on Telegram

**[01:33]** so you'll be able to see it in there.

**[01:34]** The programming will be posted in there in PDF form.

**[01:37]** And there's, I want to say kind of three different angles

**[01:40]** we can take here.

**[01:41]** So the first one would be there's

**[01:43]** going to be some people that are on it where it's just

**[01:45]** absolutely appropriate for them to be on a semi-finals prep.

**[01:48]** There are going to be some people in the middle.

**[01:50]** And we can talk through what the scaling looked like for Masters.

**[01:53]** we can talk about what maybe a Hatchim version of something would be.

**[01:57]** And then we have people who, you know, are on the back half of qualification.

**[02:02]** We can talk.

**[02:03]** Obviously you guys can reach out to me anytime, but there are a lot of people

**[02:06]** that have qualified where it's not going to be appropriate for them to follow

**[02:10]** a semi-finals peaking schedule.

**[02:12]** And honestly, if you're on the fence, let's, let's just talk through it

**[02:15]** because there's a ton of nuance here.

**[02:17]** There are some people who I think would be really cool for them to follow a prep

**[02:20]** and go through it and see what it's like, see what it's like for the people that

**[02:22]** are prepping to make it further in the season every year. So yeah, long story long, there's

**[02:26]** a lot of different situations for different levels of athletes that are qualifying here.

**[02:31]** That's what's unique about having a B top 2000. So if you're on the fence, get in touch

**[02:35]** with us, we can talk through it. You can email me coach at Misfit athletics.com. You can

**[02:39]** talk to us in telegram, but there will be a group in there. You will be able to see

**[02:42]** the programming and we can just take it kind of one step at a time. So Monday, April 27

**[02:48]** when that group will get started. I'll post the programming the weekend before. As always,

**[02:53]** this episode of the podcast and all episodes of the podcast are brought to you by Gorilla

**[02:56]** Mind. Two products of the week are going to be the ones that I travel with the most. You

**[03:03]** travel enough for work and it starts getting really annoying to have your bag pulled at

**[03:08]** TSA for creatine and electrolytes. So what I do is I buy the creatine gummies from Gorilla

**[03:13]** of mind for gummies tastes pretty damn good.

**[03:16]** We get the five grams of creatine that we want.

**[03:18]** I usually, if I'm traveling, I'm going to do two to three doses of that in a day.

**[03:22]** They have their single serve electrolyte packets, the IV rush, which actually has

**[03:27]** an amount of sodium that's going to do something and the, you know, accurate

**[03:31]** breakdown of the things that you're losing through exercise.

**[03:34]** So I always travel with the IV rush and the creatine gummies.

**[03:38]** If you go to grill of mine.com forward slash misfit, you can save and you're

**[03:42]** supporting the show or you can just use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[03:45]** Without further ado, I'm going to kick it back to Hunter and I last fall

**[03:49]** going over the gears matrix and see you guys next week.

**[03:52]** All right.

**[03:53]** The gears matrix.

**[03:54]** Here's how we're going to do this.

**[03:56]** I want to give you guys the origins of where this came from.

**[03:59]** Then we'll explain it.

**[04:00]** We'll talk about the original version and then we'll sort of get into the

**[04:04]** additions, the new matrix, how to use it, where to download it, all that good stuff.

**[04:08]** I'm actually going to read my origins thing here because it puts me back into the headspace

**[04:14]** of the sort of when I did this in the beginning.

**[04:17]** All right, the origins of the gears matrix combined 11 years of data, a simple remote

**[04:22]** coaching tool, and a meathead kneeling at the altar of linear progression.

**[04:26]** It took eight or nine of those 11 years to develop a chart showing the optimal duration of rounds,

**[04:31]** total volume, and rest periods needed to move the needle in a test and retest format consistently.

**[04:37]** So think your cube test, your Mount Doom's, any of your power output,

**[04:42]** wattage tests, that sort of thing.

**[04:44]** Along the way, it became clear that the more time spent at different

**[04:47]** paces that resulted in a trend towards high intensity, maybe you start

**[04:51]** round one of any of these workouts will reference in zone three.

**[04:55]** And then you end up in zone five, the better that the retest data looked as

**[04:59]** a remote coach, this led me to track my athletes results in a spreadsheet

**[05:03]** that allowed me to personalize workouts to force that different spectrum of pacing,

**[05:06]** Setting aside zone two and power output sessions,

**[05:09]** I found that I could create workouts

**[05:11]** at roughly eight separate speeds

**[05:13]** that could all trend into uncomfortable territory

**[05:16]** by the end of the workout.

**[05:17]** Not only should all coaches and athletes

**[05:19]** have access to this document,

**[05:20]** but it should be used to gamify and track progress all year.

**[05:24]** Any thoughts on that, Hunter?

**[05:27]** I mean, it's like, is that in the document?

**[05:30]** You said that's like the intro to it?

**[05:31]** It's in that article.

**[05:32]** It's like the intro to the article that I share with people

**[05:35]** that I'm now gonna update and put the new one in.

**[05:37]** But I really just wanted people to know that like,

**[05:40]** I didn't set off to create this,

**[05:42]** this kind of created itself over that period of time.

**[05:45]** Yeah, I mean, it's one of those things

**[05:46]** I think that gets kind of built out of necessity,

**[05:49]** especially at the higher, for a higher level crossfitter.

**[05:52]** I think it's probably two in the weeds

**[05:56]** for your affiliate athlete and even maybe a GPP-esque athlete

**[06:01]** not because it's not valuable, but because like,

**[06:04]** I feel like there are so many other fundamentals that probably need work ahead of like dialing

**[06:09]** in the perfect pace on certain machines.

**[06:13]** When it comes to the competitive side and actually optimizing for the ideal amount of

**[06:20]** either effort, pace, work, score in a workout if it includes other stuff, like we've talked

**[06:27]** about so many times, the machine provides free information in the fact that there's

**[06:31]** a monitor and objective data associated with it.

**[06:34]** And if you're a competitive athlete and you go into an event and you don't know, I had

**[06:39]** this conversation with Justin actually about his K run at the CrossFit Games.

**[06:43]** It was kind of funny.

**[06:45]** Even I talked to him about that.

**[06:46]** I was like, what was your pace?

**[06:47]** And I knew what the answer was.

**[06:49]** And he kind of admitted like, well, I didn't really have one.

**[06:51]** And even guys on the start line were like, where's your watch?

**[06:55]** And Justin was like, I have one.

**[06:57]** And I'm like, like, motherfucker, you got a free pacer that could be attached to your

**[07:01]** And maybe that was the difference.

**[07:04]** Maybe that's the difference for him in 10, 15, 20 points

**[07:08]** because he came out a little bit too hot and limped.

**[07:11]** When you learn the finish line.

**[07:13]** And like, for sure.

**[07:14]** So kind of a real world example of those gears.

**[07:17]** And I've even talked to Kelly about this.

**[07:20]** And like, when we get into the actual nuts and bolts

**[07:22]** of the kind of like breakdown,

**[07:24]** Rigo power, anaerobic, aerobic,

**[07:26]** there are like, again, when you get to the higher levels,

**[07:29]** you can actually, you can really notice like where an athlete has gaps and share this because Kelly is,

**[07:36]** I'm sure she wouldn't mind, but like Kelly is an extremely strong and powerful athlete, right?

**[07:40]** We're talking like a near 250 pound clean, like 300 pound back squat, like some seriously

**[07:47]** impressive numbers. And she's a master at this point. And on the other end, she actually really

**[07:52]** improved in some of the aerobic stuff. The running event was one of her was, was a far better finish

**[07:57]** than maybe we both expected and would have historically expected.

**[08:02]** She really, really struggles in the like the easiest example is like the think the 2223

**[08:10]** interval type format, like two very hard minutes of work, one minute of rest to recover.

**[08:15]** And it's like, you know, it's the it's the game of like, can I get this workout done

**[08:19]** in three intervals?

**[08:20]** Or do I need the fourth?

**[08:21]** Or can I even get it done in two whatever?

**[08:24]** She really struggles with that like kind of black hole area of it's not a dead sprint,

**[08:30]** but it's still a really, really hard effort and to be able to maintain a certain pace

**[08:35]** there and then get off the bike and do double unders, you know, go handstand, push up, bike

**[08:41]** hard, double under, like at the Masters games.

**[08:44]** That's an area that we need to improve on within the context of the sport of CrossFit.

**[08:49]** So all that to say is there are very distinct kind of effort levels that get attached to

**[08:56]** workouts and time domains.

**[08:58]** The machines are the easiest place that we have to really kind of dial in as far as objectively

**[09:05]** measuring output as opposed to doing burpees and thrusters and how that feel sort of vibe.

**[09:12]** So I think it's a really useful tool.

**[09:14]** I think it's the way that not to get too far into the thing

**[09:19]** or the sheet itself, but I think the improvements to it are,

**[09:24]** I think it's valuable because there's definitely

**[09:26]** a distinction when you get into the upper end power output

**[09:29]** ranges.

**[09:30]** Yeah, for sure.

**[09:31]** I think it's just one of those tools

**[09:32]** that you need to have in your arsenal

**[09:34]** as a competitive crossfitter.

**[09:37]** One of the things that's so fun about my job

**[09:39]** is with my higher level competitors,

**[09:43]** there is this like ultimate proving ground

**[09:45]** and pressure for a coach where it's like,

**[09:48]** this athlete struggled with this thing

**[09:49]** and it was obvious for them and for everyone else.

**[09:52]** Can you move the needle on it

**[09:53]** because we're gonna test it again

**[09:55]** and everyone's gonna know

**[09:56]** whether you can get somebody better at this thing?
