---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2"
published: 2026-04-15
episode_number: "367.2"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:57"
chunk_end: "39:56"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2 - Chunk 4

Episode: [Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:57]** You know what I mean?

**[29:58]** I'm holding 250 watts here for an hour.

**[30:02]** Like how is this my rest day?

**[30:03]** This is crazy.

**[30:05]** Yeah.

**[30:06]** And so what we need to do is that heart rate should the fitter you are the lower that should

**[30:10]** be that lower that number should be.

**[30:12]** That's one super easy way to put it.

**[30:14]** If someone who's not very fit, goes out there and flirts with 180 minus their age while

**[30:18]** they're jogging and walking, they're fine.

**[30:20]** You are going to be absolutely fine.

**[30:23]** You need the fitness.

**[30:24]** You're not torching your nervous system.

**[30:26]** You're not going fucking fast enough to torture your nervous system.

**[30:28]** Anything's going to torture your nervous system.

**[30:30]** Just get after it.

**[30:31]** Exactly.

**[30:32]** Yeah.

**[30:33]** So that's not a problem there.

**[30:34]** But then we go to the opposite end of the spectrum and the greatest runner who has ever

**[30:37]** lived or at least in, has been measured basically only runs in zone one and training because

**[30:43]** it's like a six 30, six 40 mile for hours.

**[30:47]** And if he was to go run in zone two, he's probably 550.

**[30:51]** And what does that do to you?

**[30:52]** You know, your muscles are not along for that ride, for that mileage, for that long, that

**[30:56]** sort of thing.

**[30:57]** Especially, you know, once you get beyond your golden years of testosterone and growth

**[31:01]** hormone flying out of your veins at all times.

**[31:04]** So as we trend back towards, so again, the better you are on a machine relative to how

**[31:09]** you want to be compared to your competitors, that sort of thing, the closer in zone two,

**[31:14]** you should be to 160 minus your age.

**[31:16]** Again, we see this all the time on the C2 bike.

**[31:18]** Hey, why don't you first of all do the fucking warm up and do the

**[31:22]** RPMs the way that you're supposed to, right?

**[31:24]** 85 to 95.

**[31:25]** I don't allow myself to up the damper on a particular wattage until

**[31:30]** I've gotten up into the mid nineties.

**[31:32]** That's how I know my body is agreeing to become an aerobic machine.

**[31:37]** And what I used to do is just push the wattage at all costs and flirt with that 180.

**[31:44]** And again, not the worst thing in the world.

**[31:45]** I'm not very aerobically inclined and I don't fucking work out anywhere near as much as 99% of the people listening to this thing

**[31:52]** But like we are using this for two reasons one

**[31:56]** We use zone two so that we can help someone who is what did I aerobically challenged?

**[32:02]** I believe is what I put in there

**[32:03]** But then also when we get into a competition phase

**[32:06]** We need to be able to add volume

**[32:08]** Without overtraining and one of the easiest ways to do that is to create volume

**[32:13]** through lower intensity and more time.

**[32:16]** Those things multiplied together.

**[32:18]** So if you have super high intensity,

**[32:20]** you can get stimulus from very short period of time.

**[32:22]** We move those sliders into the opposite direction

**[32:25]** and that creates something where we are moving the needle

**[32:28]** and you actually might even feel better because you did it.

**[32:31]** So those would be the two reasons

**[32:32]** that we're doing those things.

**[32:34]** Zone one is interesting for a couple reasons.

**[32:38]** Recovery for most people.

**[32:39]** I mentioned this either on the podcast

**[32:41]** just to hunt her anecdotally. But if I do an hour and a half long bike ride outdoor

**[32:49]** on the road and I'm in zone four, zone five the whole time, if I take a rest day the next

**[32:54]** day, the day after that, my HRV is still struggling. I'm still having a rough time. My body's like,

**[33:00]** hey, do we need to be in zone five for an hour? Is this necessary? And I'm like, I live

**[33:05]** in zone five, bitch. I'm fine. Don't tell me I'm dying, watch. I know how I feel. If

**[33:09]** If I do, and the longer I do it, the better actually, but if I do a zone one session on

**[33:14]** a C2 bike the next day, not only do I feel better the following day, but my watch tells

**[33:19]** me I feel better.

**[33:20]** And so those things actually like line up together.

**[33:22]** So my HRV improves in that space.

**[33:24]** So it's a really good recovery tool.

**[33:27]** And then if you're a, again, if you're a fucking monster on a machine, you will get fitter

**[33:31]** from zone one.

**[33:32]** The fitter you are in a particular modality, the lower you can have your heart rate and

**[33:37]** still do better and that's just because you're going faster.

**[33:39]** Like, that's just kind of what that means.

**[33:42]** So if you are a monster on the C2 bike or you struggle to get your heart rate in range

**[33:47]** for that, care more about your wattage.

**[33:50]** Like hey, if you can get on there and, you know, 200 watts for a guy, don't worry about

**[33:57]** your heart rate as long as you're not getting up beyond what we're looking for.

**[34:00]** It's not a big deal, right?

**[34:02]** That's that stimulus kind of it's more of speed related than that.

**[34:05]** So if I'm doing that for an athlete, I just tell them, hey, every five or 10 minutes,

**[34:10]** look at your heart rate and make sure we're not being stupid here.

**[34:13]** Like make sure you're still in zone one or zone two.

**[34:15]** The range for zone one?

**[34:17]** The range for zone one is 160 minus your age down to 140 minus your age.

**[34:22]** So for me, that's roughly a hundred to 120 beats per minute.

**[34:27]** And that is very much a like through conversational pace.

**[34:31]** I don't really-

**[34:32]** Are you getting aerobic zone 2-like benefits from zone 1?

**[34:37]** I guess probably depends on like you alluded to it.

**[34:40]** Like if you're aerobically inclined and don't need the zone 2 volume per se.

**[34:45]** And there's just really good research.

**[34:48]** Like if you were to decide to, if you really struggled with zone 2 running would be an

**[34:53]** example.

**[34:54]** You're like, I basically can't.

**[34:56]** And there are athletes that are like that.

**[34:58]** a ton is really good for your aerobic output. Now, again, what's the volume, right? Like

**[35:06]** if I was to do six hours a week of zone one, I would probably get a pretty good benefit

**[35:10]** from it. Sure. A single session is probably worth half of what the zone two is for somebody

**[35:16]** like me. So I think we're just using those sliders again, right? The lower the intensity,

**[35:21]** the more we have to have. Yeah, we just need more time to get the same. Physiologically,

**[35:24]** in the ice bath. Like you can do, you can get the exact same benefit in ice bath that's

**[35:28]** 50 degrees if you sit in it for 15 minutes or whatever. I'm just giving an example, same

**[35:33]** idea with the sauna. And I don't recommend it, it's actually worse. It was in moderate

**[35:37]** temperatures for a really long time. But so again, it probably depends on how you're able

**[35:42]** to do it. Now, the other place that this has specific to misfit athletics is if you wake

**[35:50]** up on if you wake up on a day that you're supposed to do your zone two bike and it's

**[35:55]** your active recovery day and you're really in the shitter.

**[35:58]** You don't feel good, something's going on, it's the beginning of a phase, HRV is absolutely

**[36:02]** tanked.

**[36:03]** That's when you would do a zone one.

**[36:04]** And in the zone one, if you're David Goggins Jr. and you want to do what you got to fucking

**[36:11]** do and you want to be in a black room, go for it.

**[36:14]** zone one could be like, I'm going to watch a shitty two hour movie and just

**[36:19]** pedal and every once in a while look down.

**[36:21]** Like that's something that you can do again to really like dampen

**[36:25]** more of a recovery bias for someone.

**[36:29]** Absolutely.

**[36:30]** Yeah.

**[36:30]** So, I mean, I don't, I don't want to part of me wants to do it, but I'm not

**[36:35]** going to do it to you guys.

**[36:37]** I'm not going to read all of these.

**[36:38]** I'm going to go down and read every single one.

**[36:40]** If you are a misfit athletics athlete, you're not going to notice some massive difference to these things.

**[36:46]** Like for instance, eighth gear used to be eight times a minute 30 with four minutes rest.

**[36:52]** Now the quote unquote benchmark of it is seven times 130 with 330 rest.

**[36:57]** It's very similar, but I saw too much of a jump in power output in that.

**[37:02]** I want to keep an athlete in that place where they're, you know, kind of having to fight to get to that place.

**[37:07]** And like little sort of nuanced things here, third gear and fourth gear are

**[37:12]** separated by an entire minute of rest in terms of round to round.

**[37:16]** Again, to designate the idea of aerobic threshold work is still a bit longer and

**[37:22]** a bit slower.

**[37:23]** We get into the anaerobic, you get a little bit more rest, you get to push harder.

**[37:26]** And I mean, yeah, it's really just volume is the lowest in eighth gear and the highest

**[37:32]** in first gear.

**[37:32]** And that's inverse in terms of rest.

**[37:35]** So you get one minute arrest and three and a half minutes arrest.

**[37:37]** And those would be the differences between first and eighth year.

**[37:40]** A lot of the workouts that you're going to see this year at Misfit

**[37:43]** athletics is another iteration of me realizing what it takes for an athlete

**[37:48]** to improve and giving you guys credit for your maturity.

**[37:52]** We were way, we were really bad back in the day at trying to change workouts

**[37:58]** and the way that we wrote stuff in hopes that you guys would think it was

**[38:01]** fun and do more of it, like a lot of what we wrote, like we used to write

**[38:04]** zone to where you got to like jump off and do a Metcon because you were bored.

**[38:08]** That sort of thing.

**[38:09]** And I used to really like him and ha over, okay, this week it's an AMRAP.

**[38:15]** This week it's rounds for time.

**[38:17]** It's distance, it's calories.

**[38:19]** It's we're still doing distance and calories, but they're all fucking AMRAPs.

**[38:23]** Every one of them is an AMRAP because I am trying to get a particular stimulus

**[38:28]** for multiple athletes, right?

**[38:30]** Like if I know you're pacing and I want to throw you a bone and say, Hey, we're

**[38:34]** going to run 800s, I can figure out exactly where that goes into this.

**[38:38]** But I mean, we've got athletes doing vastly different workouts.

**[38:43]** If we give them, it's this many calories or it's this much distance.

**[38:47]** Right?

**[38:48]** It's just so much different.

**[38:50]** And I switched to with certain athletes, AMRAPs only, so that I could really convince them.

**[38:55]** It's another linear progression thing.

**[38:57]** Hey, you held this pace for four minutes.

**[38:58]** Now let's see if you can hold it for five or six or seven, whatever.

**[39:02]** It was easier for this whole system to work.

**[39:04]** So, so much of what you guys are going to see in the programming this year is

**[39:08]** going to be and wrap this much times this much, and then it's also a lot easier to

**[39:14]** compare scores, workout to workout, like significantly easier in terms of.

**[39:20]** Just a thought.

**[39:20]** I wonder if it would be useful for you to plug in the.

**[39:26]** That paste derivatives link, you know, or the little sliding graph that shows what

**[39:31]** like a two minute per 500 meter pace equates to

**[39:36]** in cows per hour in water.

**[39:38]** Yeah.

**[39:40]** I had to have seen that.

**[39:42]** So one really cool thing here, nerd side note,

**[39:45]** I have made all of those in Excel

**[39:48]** and since had chat GPT do them and make them look better

**[39:51]** and I had the amount of fucking things

**[39:54]** I could export for people like,
