---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2"
published: 2026-04-15
episode_number: "367.2"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:56"
chunk_end: "49:52"
topics: ["Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|Throwback Episode: Training Smart AND Hard on Machines: The Misfit Gears Matrix 2.0 - E.367.2]]

## Transcript

**[39:56]** so I can actually add that as well.

**[39:58]** Yeah, it would be one thing that you could add there

**[40:00]** And I do again recommend having like slashes

**[40:03]** in your gears chart showing like, okay, I held this

**[40:07]** and then I held this and then I held this.

**[40:09]** And so if you're starting from scratch,

**[40:11]** here's how to think about it.

**[40:13]** You have none of this entire thing filled out.

**[40:16]** You show up day one and I'll pull up a workout here

**[40:20]** real quick or actually I just read one of the ones off this.

**[40:23]** So fourth gear, AMRAP six minutes times three,

**[40:25]** you would do for row calories rest two and a half minutes.

**[40:29]** You have your brain and your personal history,

**[40:32]** and you probably have some rough idea

**[40:34]** of what you should do for this workout.

**[40:36]** We find that athletes are very wrong

**[40:39]** when they show up at our programming

**[40:41]** for what these things are,

**[40:43]** but the good thing is all of your machines

**[40:45]** or your watch or your phone will give you

**[40:47]** the average pace that you end up doing.

**[40:50]** We don't typically see people go too slow

**[40:52]** and then get faster.

**[40:54]** We almost always see people go way too fucking fast

**[40:56]** and then get significantly slower.

**[40:58]** but in either scenario, it's going to spit out an average,

**[41:02]** and that is what you put into your gears matrix to start.

**[41:05]** Now, if you range all the way from a 145 to a 155

**[41:10]** in a workout, and you put the 150 in there,

**[41:13]** it's probably close, but the next time you do it,

**[41:16]** figure out whether you started at 150,

**[41:19]** and again, you can project it, go a little bit faster,

**[41:21]** you're like, I actually still might be at 150, 152.

**[41:24]** And then that is how you update the matrix.

**[41:28]** We find that athletes are two to three seconds per 500 meter or 1000 meter, if it's a C2

**[41:37]** bike split on a machine between gears, two to three seconds.

**[41:40]** So if your third gear is a 145, you can estimate your fourth gear being a 143, something to

**[41:47]** that effect.

**[41:48]** That's typically what we see for jumps and the fitter you are, the closer those things

**[41:52]** are going to be together.

**[41:53]** Basically, the distance from first gear to eighth gear, if you are aerobically inclined,

**[41:58]** should be shorter, essentially.

**[42:00]** You should be able to just keep getting after it, that sort of thing.

**[42:04]** When it comes to running, it's about 15 seconds per mile, roughly, per gear.

**[42:09]** If your first gear is a seven minute mile, your second gear might be a 645, and then

**[42:15]** a 630, and a 615.

**[42:17]** That's just historical data.

**[42:19]** Then the Echo Bike, this one's pretty easy.

**[42:21]** It's usually about 1 RPM.

**[42:23]** it's two, but like the, again, the fitter you are and the harder you can go in those

**[42:27]** aerobic ones, it's you kind of just jump in an RPM every single time you go there.

**[42:32]** You know, on the women's end, we see low sixties roughly on the first gear and we see 70 to

**[42:38]** like low to mid seventies, depending on the size all the way up to eighth gear.

**[42:42]** And we fill these things in, we project based on the ideas that I just gave you.

**[42:46]** And then we use it as linear progression.

**[42:48]** You continue to show up, Hey, this is what I got the last time.

**[42:51]** I've been feeling really good lately.

**[42:53]** I'm going to fucking, you know, try to chop a second off.

**[42:56]** I still think negative splits are the best way to do that.

**[42:58]** So you can figure out whether your idea was actually a good idea or not.

**[43:01]** And you just over time try to get faster in each block on here.

**[43:05]** And it's simple, boring, good old fashioned.

**[43:09]** If you want to get better at the thing, do the thing mixed with constantly

**[43:12]** varied functional machines performed at high intensity, different speeds.

**[43:18]** Variable.

**[43:19]** We'll clean that up.

**[43:20]** We'll clean that up a little bit. So yeah, it works really fucking well

**[43:24]** And if you lean into it and you lean into the test retest model, you're gonna get better at stuff

**[43:29]** I think my only

**[43:31]** Additional note on that when just when you were talking about like I'm gonna go up one RPM in

**[43:36]** You were saying like one RPM ish per gear on the echo bike. Yes on a on the echo bike

**[43:42]** Okay

**[43:43]** well

**[43:43]** I mean this still applies because just understand this is more just like a

**[43:47]** a kind of tip here when unless you are using the exact same concept and this is concept

**[43:52]** too specific unless you're using the literal exact same concept to machine I don't mean

**[43:57]** like it's a rower and it's the no literally literally the the the model down to the serial

**[44:05]** number like that that your damper a for damper on machine a is going to be slightly different

**[44:12]** than a four damper on machine B.

**[44:15]** If you want to like, I mean, we're talking about optimizing

**[44:18]** to the second of pace here.

**[44:19]** So might as well go the full Monty and like understand

**[44:23]** that's where the drag factor feature

**[44:26]** in those concept two machines plays a role.

**[44:28]** Your goal would be to match the drag factor more so

**[44:33]** than the damper setting.

**[44:35]** Cause it might be like four on one machine yields

**[44:38]** a specific drag factor.

**[44:40]** And then it's like on the other machine, it's like four and a quarter.

**[44:44]** It's really small.

**[44:45]** It might be, it might be more than that, but like,

**[44:48]** times it's literally sometimes it's over a damper full damper.

**[44:52]** I've had, yeah, I've had some crazy zone two sessions where I'm like,

**[44:56]** I am the fittest man alive.

**[44:58]** And then you go down and use the other brand new C2 bike and you're like,

**[45:01]** you are the slowest man alive.

**[45:04]** So here's how I deal with that.

**[45:05]** Personally, I have to have, again, we all the way back at the beginning here,

**[45:09]** I talked about my dad bod and I get wrapped around the axle way too much, but I have a

**[45:14]** way to deal with this.

**[45:15]** So let's say I'm doing third gear and that is a two, we'll use round numbers.

**[45:20]** It's a two minute pace for me.

**[45:21]** I will go onto the bike and I will move the damper until two minutes gets yielded from

**[45:27]** 85 RPMs.

**[45:28]** Hey, you're doing the exact same thing.

**[45:30]** And then I know that I'm probably, I'll go look at, I'll, you know, ride up to 90 RPMs

**[45:36]** and be like, okay, that's this and here's my band. I'm going to start at 85 RPMs, that's

**[45:41]** going to be my floor. And then knowing that I am going to try to get those negative splits

**[45:46]** there. But we know from the cycling community that that's kind of that sweet spot of where

**[45:52]** athletes are essentially the most efficient on the machine. And of course, with the drag

**[45:57]** factor, that's probably a little bit different, but that's probably getting too far into the

**[46:01]** weeds. So I don't pay attention. I don't give a flying fuck what the damper says on

**[46:06]** that thing. I get on it and I'm like, 85 RPMs slide the damper, two minutes done. Like that's

**[46:13]** the setting that I'm going to be on because my bike at home is like legitimately 10 seconds.

**[46:22]** Or is it 10 seconds? No, it's like 20 watts, I think, like different on a one damper than

**[46:27]** in some of the bikes here.

**[46:28]** It just, and it feels different too.

**[46:30]** And I would say the bike is probably the biggest culprit

**[46:33]** on that, the swings aren't as crazy.

**[46:36]** But if you are, again, getting into the nitty gritty,

**[46:39]** if you are wondering why your row feels shitty for that day

**[46:43]** and you have your strokes per minute data

**[46:45]** and you're like, that's it, I'm two strokes per minute low,

**[46:48]** I was probably on the wrong damper,

**[46:49]** like that kind of thing.

**[46:51]** And that's just the kind of stuff where like

**[46:53]** that could go all the way back to talking about athletes

**[46:56]** being confident in a particular setting and not in others,

**[47:00]** like that can fuck people up.

**[47:02]** Like I don't have it anymore.

**[47:03]** And it's like, actually, no,

**[47:04]** there's just a shitload of dust in your row.

**[47:06]** Literally, that's the...

**[47:08]** Has absolutely nothing to do with your fitness.

**[47:10]** You don't need to quit and become a triathlete anymore.

**[47:13]** Or probably... Maybe you do.

**[47:14]** In this instance.

**[47:16]** All right, I think that's it.

**[47:19]** You can hit us up on social media.

**[47:23]** You can email me, coachatmissfitathletics.com

**[47:25]** if you would like this and you're not in a telegram

**[47:29]** or sort of already on the program.

**[47:32]** It's a way to steal free programming.

**[47:34]** It has the workouts written in it.

**[47:36]** Does it tell you exactly how we do them

**[47:37]** and how often and how to test and retest?

**[47:39]** No, but it's a little sample.

**[47:43]** You go into a Sarcu and you're getting a couple nuggets

**[47:46]** of that chicken, you're like, ah, walk by.

**[47:49]** Minutes later, you gotta walk by in the other direction.

**[47:52]** Got a mustache on.

**[47:53]** But we got a lot of window shoppers at Misfit Athletics.

**[47:57]** We always have.

**[47:58]** Some of the best athletes in the world have been Misfit Athletics window shoppers.

**[48:01]** Why don't you just come on in?

**[48:02]** All right.

**[48:03]** I don't know.

**[48:04]** What do I have for final thoughts?

**[48:06]** I just think that giving people actual paces to hold, actual paces to be, tracking how

**[48:12]** good you are over time within these workouts, and they literally range from 15 seconds to

**[48:18]** an hour and a half, just gives us an opportunity to help people get better in a bit more of

**[48:23]** of a controlled environment where CrossFit in its original form tends to be a bit more

**[48:30]** esoteric and hard to measure and hard to take really good notes about.

**[48:34]** It gives us an opportunity to work on our conditioning, to work on our GPP if we're

**[48:38]** rotating machines as well.

**[48:39]** It's kind of weird.

**[48:41]** It's the one...

**[48:42]** It's like probably the defining feature of CrossFit is that it is like, you know, it's

**[48:47]** measurable, observable, repeatable.

**[48:49]** you could calculate your power output on the thruster burpee row, you know, row workout,

**[48:56]** but it's a pain in the ass and you're not going to do that.

**[48:58]** But you can do that much more easily with machines.

**[49:01]** I think my final thought is just like, hey, you probably, you listener, you athlete, you

**[49:06]** probably track your lifts pretty maniacally, you know what you've hit for one, three and

**[49:12]** five maybe or just a very, very, very good general idea.

**[49:16]** This is the same thing.

**[49:18]** have to and it's more important. It's more I was going to say it's more important. It's

**[49:22]** a conditioning sport. You have to understand these things. I think they have the potential

**[49:25]** to it also just helps you inform you like you don't need to necessarily think about

**[49:30]** the gears matrix as like machine specific. It's like you know their intervals. Let's

**[49:36]** let me see here. Try not to backtrack too far but like in that in that gears matrix

**[49:41]** like you've got working windows that range from one and a half minutes to 15 minutes.

**[49:47]** Like how many Metcons do you do that live in that range of, you know, probably more
