---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380"
published: 2025-12-23
episode_number: "380"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:58"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're all Misfits!

**[00:04]** Alright you fat pig, bunch of Misfits!

**[00:08]** You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:12]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said aye's on.

**[00:30]** or whatever you celebrate, but it's the time of year

**[00:34]** where you might potentially, whether you want to or not,

**[00:38]** be having conversations with family members

**[00:41]** about things like exercise and diet.

**[00:45]** And like, you ever have someone who is like embarrassed

**[00:47]** that they're eating pizza around you

**[00:49]** because you're either a CrossFit or a CrossFit coach

**[00:53]** and you're like, hey man, it's okay, pizza.

**[00:56]** These conversations are inevitable and I watch

**[01:00]** possibly the worst versions that I can imagine

**[01:03]** on repeat of how people treat themselves

**[01:06]** in one another when it comes to creating new habits

**[01:08]** in their life.

**[01:09]** So we're gonna talk a little bit about that.

**[01:11]** Again, within the context of potentially having

**[01:13]** those conversations with somebody else

**[01:15]** or having those conversations with yourself.

**[01:18]** But of course, as always, we will get into housekeeping,

**[01:21]** we will get into read, listen, watch,

**[01:23]** and then we'll dive in.

**[01:25]** This episode of the podcast is brought to you by GorillaMind.

**[01:28]** you can head to GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit

**[01:31]** or just use the code word misfit at checkout on Gorilla Mind.

**[01:35]** The product of the week, if you're watching on YouTube,

**[01:38]** there's a blurry version of it right over my head right here.

**[01:42]** This is Gorilla Mode, this is their pre-workout.

**[01:45]** Speaking of tiny habits,

**[01:47]** I'll explain how I got back into this,

**[01:49]** but I did my first fourth gear echo bike at elevation

**[01:53]** last week.

**[01:55]** And I relied heavily on the old gorilla mode.

**[01:59]** It's a pre-workout that has doses of stuff that actually help you.

**[02:03]** And for me, I find it to be mental more than anything else.

**[02:08]** That moment of can I hold these RPMs comes later and then I can convince myself to stay

**[02:15]** above that.

**[02:16]** Now, obviously there's some, you know, a lot of the ingredients have a physiological effect,

**[02:20]** which probably plays into that a little bit.

**[02:22]** But again, the narrative of the elevation, and I haven't done this in a while.

**[02:28]** And I used to say that I was the worst six foot tall 200 pound rower in the CrossFit

**[02:33]** community.

**[02:34]** That title might be on the Echo Bike now.

**[02:36]** The one positive is the fan moves easier through the air, although at the RPMs I was traveling

**[02:44]** at, it didn't seem to help up that much.

**[02:46]** So best pre-workout in the game works really well.

**[02:50]** on to shout out of the week. I get a shout out the whole telegram group.

**[02:57]** Stephanie Klisham posted the quintessential scary season, spooky season, monsoon season

**[03:07]** post and shout out to her first and foremost. That's what this group is for. That's why

**[03:12]** we have it. Of course, us answering questions about the nitty gritty of training is important,

**[03:18]** but especially in line with this episode,

**[03:21]** your ability to lean on other people

**[03:23]** and have those shared experiences is so important.

**[03:26]** I won't go through every single one,

**[03:27]** but make sure you join the Telegram group

**[03:29]** and go into the Hatchet channel

**[03:31]** and just scroll up so you can see this.

**[03:33]** In my two cents that I wanted to add,

**[03:36]** but I actually like taking a full step back

**[03:38]** and letting the community and Paige and other people

**[03:42]** kind of do the work sometimes

**[03:44]** because the buy-in from someone who's in the trenches

**[03:47]** you can be really powerful. Austin Spencer and Kenzie Riley both qualified for the CrossFit Games

**[03:55]** while working full-time jobs doing lift conditioning skill only. That was during

**[04:03]** semi-finals prep and Austin was getting up at like a.m. to come in and do one thing and then coming in

**[04:11]** after cutting trees down all day qualified for the CrossFit Games for the first time. And then

**[04:15]** And then Kenzie Riley was coming off a year of, she had taken a year off, given birth.

**[04:22]** Crazy.

**[04:23]** Wasn't really sure kind of where she was at.

**[04:25]** And it was just like, let's take this one step at a time.

**[04:27]** And I think one part of it is, is the piece of you have the people in that telegram group

**[04:34]** have this crazy baseline level of fitness.

**[04:37]** And that just doesn't disappear, right?

**[04:39]** At a cellular level, it's actually kind of waiting to be brought back out.

**[04:44]** And you can rely on that because of your ability to put more effort into less things.

**[04:52]** When you're starting off, if you just go crazy, crazy, crazy low volume, you can't really

**[04:57]** bring that punch to the workout.

**[04:59]** But if you have the baseline level of fitness and skill and strength, when you have those

**[05:04]** seasons of life that force you to go lower volume, you just got to bring the heat and

**[05:08]** it works a lot better than more volume and less intensity.

**[05:13]** So we are only going to add in the seasons of life when we can give that level of effort

**[05:19]** to those other pieces.

**[05:20]** Yeah, because going through the motions, you know, the whole no check boxes thing, that's

**[05:25]** it's just not going to help you.

**[05:26]** Like we've always said we say that training camps all the time.

**[05:29]** We are not impressed by free time intensity is king.

**[05:32]** Yeah, for sure.

**[05:34]** Yeah, I think a lot.

**[05:35]** I think in into her age, right, her experience or training age may be much lower and you

**[05:40]** can you know, she's in her early 20s.

**[05:42]** So there's a lot of experience to still come.

**[05:45]** So to see the range of someone like myself, like experience, have gone through what she's

**[05:52]** going through.

**[05:53]** I remember starting with Gabe when I just got into remote coaching and I have this whole

**[05:58]** training sheet.

**[05:59]** And it's like, I want to give 110% to every piece that's in there.

**[06:02]** And I tried for a day and I was like, oh my gosh, that's not possible.

**[06:07]** You got to sometimes learn those things as you go.

**[06:10]** To get that kind of experience is still really valuable.

**[06:14]** And I was really happy she shared,

**[06:16]** especially it'll tie in really nicely with our topic

**[06:20]** for today.

**[06:21]** So I'm excited to dive into that.

**[06:24]** For sure.

**[06:25]** Yeah, I have two shout outs, I guess kind of three.

**[06:28]** In Telegram, Kyle Moline shared that he did his first pro solo

**[06:33]** high rocks.

**[06:33]** And his goal was to be under an hour and 10.

**[06:36]** And he did that by six seconds.

**[06:39]** That's pretty impressive.

**[06:40]** Yeah.

**[06:41]** You know how to make those wall balls hurt

**[06:42]** to make that happen, which I love.

**[06:45]** And we know he's definitely going to hit standard

**[06:47]** on his movements there.

**[06:48]** But out of 176 competitors, he finished 30th,

**[06:51]** which is really, really awesome.

**[06:53]** He's 12th in his age group.

**[06:54]** Top 5% on the stations, top 49% on the runs.

**[06:59]** And yeah, I love that.

**[07:00]** To kind of go off of that, Ashley Drabicki in Telegram,

**[07:04]** just a little bit of banter with her saying she can finally beat him in some

**[07:08]** conditioning pieces this week so that's pretty fun to see the back and forth there.

**[07:12]** So yeah, if you guys, you know, you have some fun in Telegram and you know, get to

**[07:17]** know some people in there you'll you really see what kind of improvements you

**[07:20]** can make just by simply having the community. So if you're not on there yet

**[07:25]** get in there. If you don't know how send us a message we'll send you a link to

**[07:28]** invite. And then I have a remote athlete shout out. One of my athletes, he's a

**[07:32]** master's athlete, his name is Chris.

**[07:33]** Um, I'll just kind of write out what he sent to me.

**[07:36]** So he texted me, he said he got asked to fill in for an in-house

**[07:39]** competition at his gym.

**[07:41]** They were second, or the second event was a three rep max front

**[07:44]** squat from the ground.

**[07:46]** So all this heavy squat clean work was super impactful this, this phase.

**[07:50]** Frankly, I thought 205 was going to be the max.

**[07:52]** My current one rep max front squat is 230 and my one rep max clean is 225.

**[07:58]** So I was pleasantly surprised to see how well 225 felt for that one.

**[08:03]** Thanks for programming the things I need. You're the best. Second event, just kidding. I copy and

**[08:09]** pasting a duplicate there. So yeah, to see him be at his current One Rep Max squat clean for a

**[08:16]** Three Rep Max front squat from the ground is really awesome. It's really cool to see his

**[08:20]** strength work paying off. Yeah. And that is like the perfect teaching moment of what we're doing

**[08:27]** when we're doing a peaking schedule and when the expectation of the fruits of your labor showing up

**[08:33]** are. So most of the people following the program are going to do at the very least the open but

**[08:39]** probably open quarterfinals. A lot of athletes go beyond that, especially this year with the online

**[08:44]** semifinal. We've got local comps, we've got people traveling to competitions. You making your way

**[08:51]** through that progression early on is about getting the reps and really like locking in the way that

**[08:57]** you move so that you can start to move a little bit better when we're really making the big

**[09:02]** physiological changes and the adaptations from a neurological standpoint and a muscular standpoint.

**[09:09]** But that moment in the arena when your adrenaline is up is when I want that new One Wrap Max to come

**[09:17]** out. If you've never felt that, try to find an arena to show yourself what you're capable of,

**[09:23]** because it's kind of fascinating. It's just hard to get yourself to a place on a Tuesday in October

**[09:32]** to hit your true One Rep Max, your real in competition One Rep Max. I've had plenty of

**[09:39]** moments like that with you, Paige. We had the split jerk at WFP1 where I get to be off to

**[09:45]** to the side and just be like, more, more.

**[09:47]** And you kind of got to know how to play it.

**[09:50]** There are some people that I feel like I need

**[09:53]** to into hitting their max.

**[09:55]** And then there are other people where it's more kind of,
