---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380"
published: 2025-12-23
episode_number: "380"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:56"
chunk_end: "29:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380 - Chunk 3

Episode: [Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[19:56]** good mental headspace when competing and going for it long term.

**[20:00]** It's part of our ethos too.

**[20:02]** I want to give you guys permission and sometimes it's a positive character trait and sometimes

**[20:07]** it's a character flaw for me.

**[20:08]** But I don't give a fuck if someone likes what I'm into or is judgmental of the lifestyle

**[20:17]** that I choose.

**[20:18]** I just want you to know I want you to have permission to be that way and that you're in the right group.

**[20:23]** You're in the right group of people to feel that way for sure.

**[20:27]** We are Misfits for a reason.

**[20:28]** Yep.

**[20:29]** All right.

**[20:30]** My listen, so McKenna came and visited me in Jersey this weekend.

**[20:34]** We spent some time.

**[20:35]** We had a nice long Saturday and my friend, Aaron, and I surprised her with going to see the Wicked

**[20:40]** musical on Broadway.

**[20:42]** We are, all three of us are obsessed with the movies.

**[20:44]** Love, Cynthia, Rivo, Ariana Grande.

**[20:46]** So current obsession, listening, wicked soundtrack.

**[20:50]** You just can't beat it.

**[20:52]** The way that it hits to after you go see it.

**[20:55]** Yes, you just it's all in your field.

**[20:58]** The dude equivalent is street hockey after you watch Mighty Ducks.

**[21:02]** Yes.

**[21:03]** You're little.

**[21:03]** You got to go outside and put the blades on.

**[21:06]** You got to put the gear on, too.

**[21:08]** You got to go all out.

**[21:09]** Yes. Uh huh.

**[21:11]** Yep. I love that.

**[21:13]** And then my last one, my watch.

**[21:15]** If you guys go either on my Instagram, it's in my story right now.

**[21:20]** I think it's a little difficult to share it on here, but it's a two minute.

**[21:24]** Yeah. So I can screen share and show this, but for the listeners, the sound only works

**[21:30]** if I download it and upload it to the podcasting platform. So it's not really going to help anybody

**[21:35]** for us to like the YouTube person could probably read the captions, but I'll repost it. Page will

**[21:41]** repost it. Yeah. And obviously you can tell us what it's all about. Yeah. So on, uh, you could

**[21:45]** either go on my Instagram story, eventually on Drew's after the podcast or on the miss

**[21:50]** head athletics, uh, Instagram, it'll be in there. So it's actually, her name is Carol Lawson. She's

**[21:54]** the Duke women's basketball coach. And she's just dropping knowledge bombs in this clip. Essentially

**[22:00]** what she's talking about is there's this idea that effort is binary. It's either you try or you

**[22:08]** you don't. But in fitness, it's obviously way more subtle for us. It's in reps that

**[22:13]** we rush, it's in the weights that we sandbag, it's the days you show up physically but not

**[22:18]** mentally. And I just like there that she kind of brought it into this idea of there being

**[22:23]** this trap of giving almost your best and how that affects your results over time. So, you

**[22:29]** know, most people, I think fail not because of laziness, but because we start to normalize

**[22:35]** doing things at 85%, giving less than our best, even after a loss or after a win, you're creating

**[22:46]** this new standard that's lower than your best. And we talk about showing up a lot in our sport and

**[22:53]** what it means to do that. And 100% looks different on different days, but it's still going in and

**[23:00]** saying, I'm not going to compromise here, I'm not going to compromise there, I'm not going to let my

**[23:04]** standard drift. I'm not going to let slacking feel acceptable. And I just, I love the way that she

**[23:11]** speaks. You know, I think she captivates who she's talking to in this two minute clip, like very

**[23:17]** quickly. So she talks about basketball, but again, this can be related to a job, a promotion, you know,

**[23:24]** anything could be related to in your life. And I just love the way that she explains it. So if you

**[23:30]** If you have a second, go watch that.

**[23:32]** If you have two minutes, go watch that.

**[23:33]** Yeah, this quote, I've saved this more than once.

**[23:37]** I love it so much.

**[23:39]** It's just one of those, like,

**[23:40]** one of those Instagram accounts that's the quote

**[23:42]** and you just keep sliding and there's a bunch in there.

**[23:46]** But it's easy to please the rats.

**[23:48]** All they want is trash.

**[23:50]** Like, I just, oh my God.

**[23:52]** I think that goes pretty good with that.

**[23:54]** Yeah, there's so many different, like,

**[23:57]** there's so many different angles that I could take this,

**[23:59]** but I can tell you as a business owner,

**[24:01]** I've watched, and we've been part of it over the years,

**[24:05]** I've watched the flavor of the month

**[24:07]** when it comes to either programming companies

**[24:10]** or a style of training or something like that.

**[24:12]** And you can see people following the trends too closely.

**[24:18]** If you are providing golf programming,

**[24:20]** if you're a CrossFit company and you're providing golf,

**[24:23]** well, you just, you got pickleball pro, stop it, okay?

**[24:27]** And like the like jerk version of that, that I could say would be the high rocks thing.

**[24:31]** I would probably have fun writing a high rocks program.

**[24:34]** I'm still holding out.

**[24:35]** I know that some of you DM me every once in a while and ask again, I will probably just

**[24:39]** write it one day and give it away for free because that's just not what I do.

**[24:43]** That's not what my goal is.

**[24:44]** I want to get people to quarterfinals, semifinals, CrossFit games.

**[24:47]** But yeah, that quote just, that quote just hits for me because, because again, like whether

**[24:52]** it's the stuff all bleeds together.

**[24:55]** How are you gonna present yourself on Instagram?

**[24:57]** You know what I mean?

**[24:58]** As a person and not as an entity or something like that.

**[25:02]** And it's like, am I going to like the eye roll that I have

**[25:06]** when the current trend of the like,

**[25:09]** you have to put this song in your reel.

**[25:11]** And it's like me when I was seven and me when I was older

**[25:15]** and I grew a foot and can you believe it?

**[25:17]** I just can't.

**[25:19]** I'm not judging you guys,

**[25:20]** but I would judge the shit out of myself if I did that.

**[25:23]** Listen, now this one is a little niche.

**[25:26]** I love Jerry Seinfeld.

**[25:29]** Watching Seinfeld as a family was like a thing growing up

**[25:32]** and then the extension would be like,

**[25:34]** curb your enthusiasm.

**[25:35]** My wife and I love the Netflix special that Jerry put out.

**[25:40]** Like if she's in a bad mood,

**[25:43]** she'll ask if we can watch that same Netflix special.

**[25:47]** So I recommend you go watch it.

**[25:49]** But he was on the podcast, We Might Be Drunk.

**[25:52]** It's episode 262, Jerry Seinfeld.

**[25:55]** You gotta be a stand-up comedy fan.

**[25:58]** They go into the weeds a little bit about it.

**[26:00]** But I just like he's someone who I would consider

**[26:04]** has range.

**[26:05]** He uses some kind of deeper concepts as a human

**[26:09]** to then translate back to what he's obsessed with.

**[26:12]** So he's huge into stoic philosophy,

**[26:14]** but also is obsessed with breakfast cereal.

**[26:18]** So just to give you an idea of what the range

**[26:20]** potentially could look like.

**[26:22]** So if you are a Seinfeld fan and are a standup comedy fan,

**[26:27]** check that out, let me know what you think.

**[26:28]** And last but not least, if you need a good cry

**[26:32]** on Tuesday, December 23rd, you need to watch,

**[26:36]** go to YouTube and go to Casey Neistat's channel.

**[26:40]** And there is a video called Do It Anyway.

**[26:43]** It's a bit of a story about like, well,

**[26:46]** if my excuse is this, then what's this guy's excuse?

**[26:50]** you sort of get perspective and you basically get punched

**[26:54]** in the face with perspective.

**[26:56]** But it's very positive, incredibly moving.

**[26:58]** It's a gentleman that Casey hooks up with

**[27:02]** that is running the New York City Marathon

**[27:05]** with cerebral palsy.

**[27:06]** And it's just the best.

**[27:09]** Casey is, for those who don't know,

**[27:11]** he is literally like the original YouTuber,

**[27:14]** the original vlog guy from way, way back.

**[27:17]** So he's like an absolute YouTube legend,

**[27:20]** but this one, he's got a lot of good,

**[27:22]** you could go down the rabbit hole a little bit.

**[27:24]** He's got a lot of good content

**[27:25]** that's sort of related to this,

**[27:27]** but it's called Do It Anyway,

**[27:28]** thumbnail says what's your excuse on it,

**[27:30]** please go watch that, let me know what you think.

**[27:32]** If you say you didn't cry, you're a liar,

**[27:34]** or you need to learn how to cry.

**[27:35]** Okay, tiny habits.

**[27:37]** So again, the context of how we're gonna deliver this

**[27:41]** could be, I don't know how to talk to other people,

**[27:46]** or I listen to, I'll give you an example,

**[27:49]** none of the people that I'm gonna mention

**[27:51]** are gonna listen to this.

**[27:52]** The way that my wife's family tries to help one another

**[27:58]** with their like, you gotta exercise, you gotta diet,

**[28:02]** you gotta change this, you gotta go to physical therapy.

**[28:04]** It's aggressive.

**[28:06]** Like I watch and I'm like, I wouldn't take this advice.

**[28:08]** Like, you know what I mean?

**[28:09]** Like it's like, everyone's like attacking.

**[28:12]** It's like when you look up in the sky

**[28:13]** and you see like a bunch of crows attacking a hawk.

**[28:15]** That's kind of the experience.

**[28:17]** And you just know from personal experience

**[28:20]** that that's just somebody else projecting onto you.

**[28:23]** Sort of like I haven't fulfilled

**[28:25]** these agreements with myself.

**[28:27]** But listen, I know that if you walk a little bit

**[28:30]** and eat real food and drink water,

**[28:32]** you're gonna be healthier.

**[28:33]** So I'm gonna lay it on him.

**[28:34]** I'm gonna punch him in the face with it.

**[28:36]** That doesn't work very well.

**[28:38]** Now again, you could be talking to yourself.

**[28:40]** You could be, you know, we're heading into

**[28:44]** the end of year, into the new year, into phase three,

**[28:47]** where we're really gonna kinda pump up the idea

**[28:50]** of crossing the threshold into open prep

**[28:53]** and then beyond that into quarterfinals prep.

**[28:55]** And it can be a problem when you say,

**[28:59]** I am now going to do this laundry list of things.

**[29:04]** I don't do my couch stretch, I don't do my warmup,

**[29:07]** I don't do my cool down, I don't do any of my accessory work

**[29:11]** or I don't ride the machines between my lifts.

**[29:14]** There's all these different habits that people wanna have

**[29:17]** And the problem is relying on motivation to get those things done because you're going

**[29:23]** to have the days, you're going to have the scary season days where it's just not going

**[29:28]** to be possible for you to do.

**[29:29]** So Tiny Habits is kind of a model based on a book that I really like probably up over

**[29:35]** my shoulder there and my favorites category.

**[29:38]** And it is a book called Tiny Habits by BJ Phal.

**[29:41]** And the cool thing about this is it is backed by science.

**[29:45]** I've read a lot of books in my day that maybe play to the parts of you that want to be better

**[29:50]** at something, but you're kind of being manipulated a little bit and there's no science to back

**[29:55]** it up.
