---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380"
published: 2025-12-23
episode_number: "380"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:56"
chunk_end: "39:55"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380 - Chunk 4

Episode: [Tiny Habits: How to talk to anyone - including yourself - about improving - E.380](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:56]** And this is, you know, from again, scientific research.

**[30:01]** And his whole idea is behavior equals motivation, plus ability, plus prompt.

**[30:08]** is kind of that first piece of want to, um, I want to start warming up really well. I'll start doing

**[30:16]** a better job about warming up and ability would be like, how, like, how hard is it to do? How easy

**[30:26]** is it to do? And how does that line up with the motivation piece? And then we'll get into the

**[30:30]** prompt part, but the prompt is kind of where he considers the magic to be made. So he's got a

**[30:36]** We got a little chart in the book on how to motivation and ability interact.

**[30:41]** And basically we've got on the Y axis motivation, low to high, and then the X axis ability,

**[30:50]** hard to do to easy to do.

**[30:51]** And the more, the harder something is to do, the more motivation you need to do it.

**[30:57]** And I think his example is like the house is on fire and your kids are in it.

**[31:01]** Like I'm going to be above the action line there.

**[31:04]** I have a very high motivation to do this very hard thing.

**[31:08]** But then on the opposite side of this,

**[31:10]** all the way to the right of the curve is,

**[31:12]** if this thing is easy to do,

**[31:14]** I need very low motivation to be able to do it,

**[31:18]** which is, I think, pretty straightforward.

**[31:19]** So his whole deal and where the name of the book comes from

**[31:23]** is shrinking it down to the tiniest version possible.

**[31:27]** So, you know, right after I check my phone,

**[31:34]** or a lot of people love the whiteboard, a lot of people are transcribing down onto the whiteboard,

**[31:38]** I am going to go over and sit on an Echo Bike. That's the tiny version, right? How long do you

**[31:44]** end up on the Echo Bike? Do you make it 30 seconds? Do you make it the full 12 minutes with the,

**[31:48]** you know, ramping the heart rate up? And we're shrinking things down to make them possible.

**[31:55]** And his whole thing is you've done the behavior.

**[32:00]** The behavior is a tree.

**[32:01]** And the shine that is going to make the tree grow

**[32:05]** is you feeling good about the thing

**[32:08]** and kind of celebrating it, which I think

**[32:10]** is incredibly important.

**[32:11]** And again, that judgment piece is

**[32:13]** going to be so strong there.

**[32:15]** The cynic is going to roll their eyes and be like,

**[32:17]** you echo bike for one minute.

**[32:19]** You're so cool.

**[32:21]** How did you do it?

**[32:21]** And it's like, no, I haven't been

**[32:24]** able to get myself to do this and now I'm going to do it and eventually it's supposed

**[32:28]** to, you're supposed to celebrate it enough that it leads you into potentially kind of

**[32:33]** like the full version of the behavior.

**[32:35]** Now he has labels this as three different types of prompts.

**[32:40]** We have an internal prompt, an external prompt, and then an action prompt.

**[32:44]** The internal and external are so easy to ignore and I can tell you right now as someone who

**[32:50]** I have a probably by design a very busy life where I'm bouncing from one thing to another

**[32:57]** and as someone with pretty intense ADD, the reminder on my phone or the alarm or me wanting

**[33:07]** to be better at doing something is not enough.

**[33:10]** There will be a point in time where I don't care about that alarm anymore.

**[33:14]** I think one of the examples in the book is if you have the alarm to take the trash out

**[33:18]** at a specific time and you're like watching a good movie,

**[33:20]** you're gonna be pissed.

**[33:22]** And then if you think to take the trash out

**[33:26]** and then you don't want to,

**[33:27]** you start judging the shit out of yourself.

**[33:29]** Like you're back to the like, I'm lazy,

**[33:32]** you know, what's wrong with me, that kind of thing.

**[33:34]** So the action prompt would be every single time I finish,

**[33:38]** you know, it's something that you already have to do.

**[33:40]** So it should be related to the other thing.

**[33:44]** So I do the dishes every night

**[33:49]** and I'm gonna take the trash out after I do the dishes.

**[33:51]** That's never like really that big of a deal.

**[33:53]** Like the floss goes next to the toothbrush

**[33:56]** kind of a situation.

**[33:57]** And again, in the gym, there's a bunch of different things.

**[34:00]** Like while I take the empty bar out

**[34:03]** and I go put it in the rack to do my push press,

**[34:05]** the next thing that I do is I walk over

**[34:07]** and get the Echo Bike and I park it right behind.

**[34:10]** And every time I do a set of push press,

**[34:12]** I just go do my little forever pace flush.

**[34:15]** It's not really that big of a deal.

**[34:17]** And then over the course of the sets,

**[34:19]** you start to realize that clearing a little bit of waste,

**[34:22]** getting a little bit of blood flow

**[34:23]** is actually helping you both physically and mentally.

**[34:26]** So the action prompts are supposed to create momentum

**[34:29]** and the framework for them is after I do this,

**[34:32]** I will do that, pretty straightforward.

**[34:34]** And all the way back to we had a few sort of segues

**[34:39]** from the stuff we were talking about before,

**[34:41]** you gotta get excited about it.

**[34:44]** You have to feel positive about it.

**[34:46]** Like if you're the, I think one example would be,

**[34:49]** so I have a mobility routine

**[34:51]** that I have like written into Google Sheets

**[34:54]** and it's a lot, it's very extensive.

**[34:56]** And I'm the kind of person who will,

**[34:59]** and this is not a positive thing,

**[35:01]** if I don't have time to do the whole thing,

**[35:02]** I won't do any of it.

**[35:03]** So what I should be doing is every time

**[35:06]** I'm about to get on the Echo bike or go for a walk,

**[35:09]** I do one stretch, right?

**[35:11]** because if like, there are like the huge like long levers

**[35:14]** that you can pull, I can do my couch stretch,

**[35:17]** which is gonna change a bunch of different things.

**[35:20]** My back's gonna feel better.

**[35:21]** I'm gonna reverse sitting in this chair here

**[35:24]** that I sit in all day and stare at spreadsheets

**[35:27]** and celebrating that you've done the thing

**[35:30]** versus the judgment of I didn't do

**[35:32]** the 20 minute mobility routine.

**[35:34]** I did the four minute mobility routine.

**[35:36]** And like four minutes is a lot longer than zero minutes.

**[35:41]** do the math with zero, but starting to think of things in that context.

**[35:47]** Yeah, I think a good thing to think about too, but actually comes from this book is

**[35:52]** your identity changes before the outcome's due. So it's not, you don't wait for the results to

**[35:58]** happen to feel like you are that person. You become that person by doing the thing. So I am

**[36:05]** someone who warms up even if I warmed up for two minutes. You have to start to create that

**[36:11]** identity of this is something I do and that will just kind of help that outcome stick more

**[36:19]** consistently. And I can think back to myself when we started doing the 15 minute sweatshacks,

**[36:26]** I'm like, I can't go a day without doing that now. I don't feel good if I don't do 12 to 15

**[36:32]** minutes on a machine. So it didn't start out that way. But again, I need to remind myself,

**[36:38]** I am that person that does X and it'll start to stick with you and it'll start to become

**[36:44]** less about judging yourself or how little or how much of it you do and more about this is just who

**[36:49]** I'm becoming. This is who I am. Yeah, I think one of the connections I can draw is I was doing some

**[36:56]** research on the differences between the endurance community and the functional fitness hybrid

**[37:03]** athlete type community.

**[37:05]** One of the biggest suggestions was what they call finishing the curve.

**[37:11]** If I look at my heart rate data and it's only for a tempo run or intervals, my heart rate

**[37:19]** It starts kind of high and then goes up and ends high and there's no ramp up to the first

**[37:28]** portion of it and there's no ramp down.

**[37:30]** So we're trying to essentially create the full curve from zero up to intensity and back

**[37:35]** down to zero.

**[37:37]** And I'm reading about this and we had had the sweat check for a while.

**[37:42]** So we had kind of the front side of this figured out.

**[37:45]** And a lot of times my motivation is I'm researching something and then I want to go put it into

**[37:53]** practice in the actual program, but for me I have to experience it to a certain extent

**[38:00]** to kind of have that buy-in.

**[38:02]** So it was like, okay, after I'm done my run, I'm going to go for a walk.

**[38:06]** And it's like, huh, I don't feel anywhere near as sore.

**[38:11]** And then it's like, okay, what did they really say in that?

**[38:14]** I go back to it and it's like, actually need to keep my heart rate over, you know, I got

**[38:19]** to keep it in like zone two for the first five minutes.

**[38:22]** So then I would leave my heart rate monitor on and I would go get on a machine or I'd

**[38:27]** continue to jog a little bit and try to keep my heart rate over 130 beats per minute.

**[38:32]** And then I would try to keep it over 120 for the next section.

**[38:37]** And by the end of this kind of experiment and just having myself do this small version

**[38:43]** of like keep moving, keep walking, keep getting on a machine or whatever.

**[38:47]** I became the athlete that's like walking around the gym like with like cool down propaganda.

**[38:53]** Like guys, I swear this war with the age if you're over the age of 30 and you don't just

**[38:59]** take 12 minutes to not feel like someone stabbed you in the legs, you're crazy.

**[39:04]** Right?

**[39:05]** And that's what came to mind with you saying like you want to be the thing before you put

**[39:09]** the work in to become the thing.

**[39:12]** Like it's all of us understand it because it's so human. It makes total sense. I want to snap

**[39:17]** my fingers and do the thing. Um, and I always trace the line back to linear progression in

**[39:24]** strength movements because like when I started doing it, I'm pretty sure there was 95 pounds

**[39:32]** on the bar on the bench press. I'm pretty sure the first time I did three by 10,

**[39:37]** It was like 95, 100, 105, that kind of thing.

**[39:41]** And like 3x10 now might be, I don't know, 185, 205, I have no idea, but it's a lot different

**[39:48]** than that.

**[39:50]** Bringing that mindset to other things, that linear progression of like, I'm just going
