---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397"
published: 2026-04-28
episode_number: "397"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning, Misfits. You were tuning into a special edition Misfit Podcast. The Misfit

**[00:24]** affiliate, 2026, 2027 season of programming gets started on Monday,

**[00:32]** May 4th, this coming Monday with the compound part one.

**[00:37]** In this podcast, we are going to go over all of the details about what the

**[00:43]** programming is, what the thought process is behind it, help you build a narrative

**[00:48]** for the people in your gym, and then talk through how we think about

**[00:52]** coaching specific things here.

**[00:54]** This episode of the podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[00:57]** You can head to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit or use the

**[01:00]** codeword misfit at checkout.

**[01:03]** And I'm not going to lie to you guys, I mostly my supplement game is, you know,

**[01:08]** your whey protein and your creatine and the stuff that we know that works.

**[01:13]** But for a year, I had to find, you know, the right nootropics, the right, you know,

**[01:19]** blend of certain things and combine them with coffee, which obviously I'm

**[01:24]** I'm still drinking the coffee.

**[01:25]** You guys know me better than that.

**[01:26]** But now I have this trusty guy right here.

**[01:30]** This is Neutropics and caffeine.

**[01:32]** Caffeine is a Neutropic, but this has the blend.

**[01:35]** I don't need to be slugging down pills.

**[01:37]** I don't need to be doing anything.

**[01:38]** Order a few cases of these bad boys.

**[01:40]** And then when I go to do something like a podcast

**[01:42]** or I got a program for three or four hours,

**[01:45]** definitely notice a difference.

**[01:46]** So still have all the best supplements in the game.

**[01:49]** But if you happen to be a business owner,

**[01:54]** a parent, you know, dealing with all this different stuff

**[01:57]** and you gotta get your brain working, right?

**[01:59]** Gorilla Mind energy drinks, they're fantastic.

**[02:01]** That's the kind of can that I buy

**[02:02]** just because the color is fucking cool.

**[02:05]** I say that one just looks crispy.

**[02:06]** They do.

**[02:07]** This looks cool.

**[02:08]** That's honestly, if I like get influencer-y on the socials,

**[02:12]** people are like, I'm not gonna lie,

**[02:13]** they do a good job with their packaging.

**[02:16]** Like they definitely have that part

**[02:18]** of the whole thing figured out, so.

**[02:20]** GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit

**[02:23]** or use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[02:25]** White Frost is my recommendation, my goat.

**[02:30]** It's a upgrade name.

**[02:31]** It's by Nick Gurman High School.

**[02:32]** All right, all right.

**[02:33]** So let's do a little housekeeping here.

**[02:35]** This is a mix of you're listening to this

**[02:38]** and you don't know whether you wanna join

**[02:40]** misfit affiliate programming or you're already on there.

**[02:43]** We've got some stuff kind of weaved in here.

**[02:45]** I just wanna call it back out

**[02:46]** that this is a new season of programming.

**[02:49]** And while a lot of the ideas based on seasons can come from the competitive aspect of Misfit

**[02:56]** Athletics, for us as programmers, drawing a line in the sand and planning out progressions

**[03:03]** is incredibly useful.

**[03:05]** And when we get to take all of the data and information and feedback that we've gotten

**[03:10]** over the course of the year and put it into a new plan and a new progression, it's not

**[03:15]** only exciting, you know, for the customer to dig back into something that feels a little

**[03:20]** bit more new, but it's exciting for us as coaches and programmers.

**[03:23]** So while I put season in air quotes, this isn't directly related to, you know, a competitive

**[03:30]** season.

**[03:31]** It does kind of line up with that.

**[03:33]** And it's just fun to dig back into the kind of macro perspective and see what we can do

**[03:38]** to help move the needle.

**[03:39]** If you are thinking about joining a Misfit affiliate, you can head to teamisfit.com and

**[03:44]** click on sign up now.

**[03:45]** If you go to any of our programming partners, that would be Sugarwad, PushPress, or Streamfit,

**[03:49]** you're automatically going to get a two-week free trial.

**[03:52]** And if you want to see two weeks of the programming in a PDF version, like it would be if you

**[03:57]** signed up for the website, I'm going to get to that part in just one second.

**[04:01]** Just email me, coach at misfitathletics.com.

**[04:03]** We can strike up a conversation if you'd like to do a call to talk through what the programming

**[04:08]** is like, answer any of your questions, all that stuff.

**[04:10]** I'm always happy to do that.

**[04:11]** I'll send you a link to set up a meeting with me.

**[04:14]** So yeah, that's sort of how you get started on the program.

**[04:17]** I will make another, this is the stuff that shows up

**[04:21]** once you sign up, you start to get some emails from us.

**[04:24]** And one of the things that's in there

**[04:25]** is the Telegram group.

**[04:27]** It's not the most bumping at the moment,

**[04:30]** but it is a goal of mine for sure.

**[04:31]** The Telegram group from the individual aspect is huge.

**[04:36]** I know that when we move over to more

**[04:38]** of the coaching education content,

**[04:41]** we're gonna be able to get more out of Telegram.

**[04:44]** but I would love to see more chatter in there.

**[04:47]** The compound part one again starts on Monday, May 4th,

**[04:51]** and it is eight weeks long.

**[04:54]** And one big change to the programming is based on feedback

**[04:58]** and based on talking to you guys, affiliate owners,

**[05:02]** coaches, we have moved away from the engine programming

**[05:06]** being a separate side program.

**[05:09]** And it is now day seven, essentially your Sunday class.

**[05:14]** It's very unique at the moment

**[05:16]** because we are working into Murf prep.

**[05:18]** But once you get sort of outside,

**[05:20]** once we get past Murf,

**[05:22]** the Sunday engine class is whatever you wanna brand it.

**[05:27]** You wanna call it high rocks type stuff.

**[05:29]** You wanna call it bootcamp.

**[05:31]** You wanna call it CrossFit Lite.

**[05:33]** We don't really care, but we get that long duration,

**[05:36]** sweaty, low skill, not heavy implements

**[05:40]** type of programming on Sundays.

**[05:42]** It's a super popular class at Misfit Gym Portland

**[05:45]** and Chris does a really great job with that.

**[05:46]** So we are now moving to,

**[05:48]** when you are looking at your programming

**[05:50]** and a lot of you have already seen the May programming,

**[05:53]** you're gonna see that day seven in there

**[05:56]** as opposed to off to the side on its own thing.

**[05:59]** We are also going to be making quite a few changes

**[06:03]** to the affiliate programming in the summer and fall

**[06:06]** and eventually are gonna be moving away

**[06:08]** from providing programming through team misfit.com.

**[06:12]** We're gonna have a new website.

**[06:13]** Legacy customers are still gonna be able to log in.

**[06:16]** That's not gonna be a big deal there.

**[06:18]** But essentially we are gonna move everyone

**[06:20]** to programming partners,

**[06:22]** and we are going to email every single customer the PDF.

**[06:26]** So you guys are still gonna get the PDF.

**[06:27]** You're gonna be able to see it in advance.

**[06:29]** Sometimes the input of the programming partners

**[06:32]** isn't as far out as you guys would like.

**[06:34]** So you get an opportunity to see that.

**[06:35]** You get to see the notes.

**[06:36]** There's going to be some additions to the actual PDF itself.

**[06:40]** But what I want from you guys in the short term, if we are already offering

**[06:44]** our programming at a place that you would like to see it, please go sign up.

**[06:48]** So figure out when your end date is.

**[06:50]** If you need to email me, coach at misfitathletics.com, please do that.

**[06:53]** Let's get you onto a programming platform.

**[06:56]** And then part two would be you guys aren't on.

**[07:00]** Be on the whiteboard, WODify, whatever it is.

**[07:02]** Tell us what programming platform you would like us to be on.

**[07:06]** And we will look into that.

**[07:07]** Some of them take a very, very large cut.

**[07:12]** So the logistics of getting to work with certain partners versus other ones.

**[07:17]** But if it's as simple as we need to do a little bit more input, we're on board for that.

**[07:21]** So let's continue to have those conversations.

**[07:24]** I'm going to be reaching out to all of you to try and set up some calls to go through,

**[07:29]** you know, this sort of thing.

**[07:31]** But if you want to proactively make the move, please do.

**[07:34]** And if you want to suggest a programming partner, please do that as well.

**[07:40]** So the compound part one building a narrative I think is really important.

**[07:46]** This is the kind of thing where like hunters in the trenches, making the

**[07:52]** phases and building the structure and doing all of those things.

**[07:55]** And I'm staring at them and trying to figure out what that narrative can be.

**[08:00]** What story can we deliver to a coaching staff?

**[08:03]** staff, what story can we deliver to members? Because going into this kind of detail allows

**[08:10]** us to show you how much thought is put into this that you can then build the narrative

**[08:16]** within yourself again within your coaching staff, but variants can look a little random.

**[08:22]** So connecting the dots for you guys and helping you do that I think can just help you deliver

**[08:27]** a better product to your gym.

**[08:29]** And this program works.

**[08:32]** We know it for a fact from the data that we get from affiliates, the data that Hunter

**[08:36]** and Kyle and the staff at Misfit Gym Portland get.

**[08:40]** But the buy-in, getting people to buy-in makes the program work better.

**[08:44]** That's just something that we've noticed on the affiliate side, something that we've noticed

**[08:47]** on the competitive side.

**[08:49]** So that is one of the main objectives of getting into the naming conventions and the biases

**[08:55]** and all of those things.

**[08:56]** is a method to the madness.

**[08:58]** So before we go into huge detail here, this is what a weekly structure

**[09:04]** could look like, head, heavy deadlifter bench.

**[09:06]** This is going to help us build a really great strength base over

**[09:10]** the course of the season, strict pulling or strict pressing.

**[09:13]** That is a really important.

**[09:15]** Like shoulder health, general longevity, making sure your joints work well,

**[09:20]** but also a very good gymnastics base conditioning with very clear intent.

**[09:25]** How long is it?

**[09:26]** You know, how many movements are in it?

**[09:28]** What is the stimulus?

**[09:29]** What are the target scores?

**[09:30]** All of that stuff.

**[09:31]** That's always going to be our bread and butter.

**[09:33]** You're going to see that, you know, one, two, three,

**[09:35]** four times a week in every single phase that we put out.

**[09:39]** Running one to two times a week, being in here,

**[09:42]** we'll get into, we will spend probably 10 minutes too long

**[09:47]** waxing poetically about the ultimate expression

**[09:50]** of the sort of human form of exercise

**[09:53]** and then Murph prep Sundays.

**[09:55]** just something to keep in mind there.

**[09:57]** Just a piece of a narrative,
