---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397"
published: 2026-04-28
episode_number: "397"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:53"
chunk_end: "39:53"
topics: ["Open", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397 - Chunk 4

Episode: [[../episode|The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397]]

## Transcript

**[29:53]** as high as I can and I'm no longer jumping.

**[29:57]** Three reps, right?

**[29:58]** It's like, be explosive three times.

**[30:00]** And if you really put the focus in and you actually try, you can feel yourself like,

**[30:05]** wow, that third one was like, I did get a little bit fatigued over just the course of

**[30:10]** these three reps because I was literally just trying very hard to be explosive.

**[30:15]** And then all of a sudden you learn like, wow, again, to the point earlier, it's like, wow,

**[30:21]** upper-end power a little less, a little less,

**[30:24]** you can actually feel those things changing.

**[30:26]** It is officially soapbox time.

**[30:29]** I will stand on mine first and then I will extend it out.

**[30:33]** Setting standards for your coaching staff.

**[30:36]** And part of my mind goes to just rites of passage

**[30:40]** and things that you have to do to get onto a coaching staff.

**[30:44]** And we've taken people through what it takes

**[30:47]** to onboard onto a misfit coaching staff

**[30:50]** before and we've had many people be like,

**[30:53]** I don't know if this is for me.

**[30:56]** And you want that.

**[30:57]** You want to set the standard high enough

**[31:00]** that people are entering your building

**[31:03]** for a level of expertise.

**[31:05]** And if you have a level of expertise,

**[31:08]** then the inmates running the asylum is not the way to go.

**[31:12]** It is a extremely short-sighted,

**[31:15]** so lift-only days would be an example of this.

**[31:19]** You have 150 members and six of your most annoying loud members don't like lift only days.

**[31:27]** A lot of times those members add a hundred pounds to their deadlift over two, two and a half years.

**[31:34]** And you just learn that they like to complain and they're good people.

**[31:37]** And you just let them complain every once in a while and you listen

**[31:39]** and you pat them on the back and it's whatever.

**[31:43]** If you have a level of expertise, if you buy into the narrative,

**[31:47]** If you watch videos about the intricacies of deadlifting

**[31:51]** or jumping or whatever on YouTube,

**[31:53]** and you bring that energy and expertise

**[31:56]** to a lift only class, you can do a really great job.

**[32:00]** You can deliver a fantastic product.

**[32:02]** You can keep people safe.

**[32:04]** You can get people to a point where like,

**[32:06]** yeah, we're talking about can they pick up their grandkid

**[32:09]** when they're 80?

**[32:11]** What if they wanna, I wanna go snowboarding when I'm 80.

**[32:15]** I want to be clanging and banging the iron when I'm 80.

**[32:18]** I want to be able to do those things.

**[32:21]** If we're short sighted with the standard that we set for our coaching staff,

**[32:26]** we don't develop and, you know, sort of pitch that level of expertise.

**[32:31]** And then we program hop or we know something works really well and we

**[32:35]** stop programming it because we got a couple of complaints, that's going to be

**[32:38]** an issue and I just really want.

**[32:42]** Whether it's our programming or someone else's programming, coaching staffs to understand

**[32:48]** the value of these days and how good of a product you can deliver.

**[32:52]** And there's a pretty good chance that you're either too self-conscious about one of those

**[32:56]** members or you haven't developed the culture or the expertise.

**[33:00]** So you feel sort of insecure about trying to deliver that sort of product.

**[33:05]** Yeah, if I had to guess more of the latter, whether it's I've got a coaching staff of

**[33:12]** great people, maybe it's all part-time coaches and it's like, I don't know how to actually

**[33:16]** like run a class when the only thing that we're doing is lifting, right?

**[33:20]** It's like, I don't know how to take people through a general warmup and then do enough

**[33:25]** like coach led reps where there's a different thing that we're focusing on with an empty

**[33:30]** bar and then 75, 55 and then 135, 95 and like actually, and then paying attention to the

**[33:37]** positions that people are in, you know, doing the coaching.

**[33:40]** The better you get at that, the easier these days are.

**[33:44]** And honestly, nowadays, between myself and Kyle

**[33:49]** doing his level four process, those lifting days,

**[33:52]** it's like, fuck, I gotta get going.

**[33:54]** I gotta get people moving right away

**[33:56]** because I got seven or eight things I wanna go through.

**[33:59]** I wanna make sure everybody's actually

**[34:01]** deadlifting properly.

**[34:02]** It's not a, hey guys, all right,

**[34:04]** warm it up and let it rip.

**[34:05]** And those people are the, often, usually,

**[34:09]** those people are the ones that get hurt.

**[34:10]** But if you're not doing a lift only day,

**[34:13]** if you follow a program that you don't write

**[34:16]** or you write the program

**[34:17]** and you're not plugging in lift only days,

**[34:22]** you're not doing CrossFit for sure.

**[34:25]** That's part of the methodology, that's part of the day.

**[34:27]** But then you also have to think,

**[34:29]** that we only do it a lift only day once per week.

**[34:33]** And a lot of that is like,

**[34:34]** we'll take Monday through Friday just as an exam,

**[34:37]** because those are the days most people are like-

**[34:39]** And it's not every week either.

**[34:40]** That schedule around, and it's not every week.

**[34:42]** Monday through Friday, it's like,

**[34:44]** if I only get to the gym,

**[34:47]** or if I miss the lift only day in one week,

**[34:50]** I might go two or three weeks without a lift only day.

**[34:54]** If we have that lift only day in every single week,

**[34:58]** the odds that that person misses that day is pretty low.

**[35:00]** And then we've also got either,

**[35:02]** there's usually a heavy barbell in a Metcon somewhere else,

**[35:05]** or like the bench press where it's paired

**[35:08]** with like a short Metcon.

**[35:09]** But like, again, if you're not programming heavy days

**[35:12]** at all, the people aren't getting stronger.

**[35:15]** That's a problem.

**[35:16]** And if it's only, you know, once in a blue moon,

**[35:20]** and you know, a lot of people miss that day,

**[35:23]** it's effectively the same thing as not doing them at all.

**[35:26]** So yeah, it has to be part of the program.

**[35:30]** And it's like, we need to communicate to people

**[35:33]** why it's important and then coaches need to be able to deliver like a good hour of teaching.

**[35:40]** Yeah, I think like the only way you'll get better at it too is to get like give yourself

**[35:47]** reps like you got a program those days and give yourself the reps of practicing how to

**[35:52]** you know, time manage a class like that. And like what I love when I get into the the affiliate

**[35:58]** meetings with you guys is like I'm scrolling through the programming and the attention

**[36:02]** to detail in the programming notes is just like this much of just details of how to approach

**[36:10]** in what the intent is and, you know, just things for the affiliate owners to really kind of

**[36:17]** put into their class and put into practice. So like, I feel like with what I see here as a coach,

**[36:24]** it would be very hard not like to not fill the hour up. You know, I feel like with that,

**[36:29]** it's very easy to get probably almost two into the weeds, like with the way, you know,

**[36:35]** you guys talk details and things like that and quality of movement. So yeah, that's just one

**[36:40]** thing that like really stands out to me with our programming. And there's like a, this isn't a

**[36:46]** knock on anybody, but it's there's an insecurity or immaturity element in the idea of like,

**[36:52]** I'm gonna say I don't like this because I'm not ready to deliver the product yet. I would much

**[36:57]** rather like have a coach walk into an office hat in hand to be like, I don't

**[37:02]** quite know how to do this yet.

**[37:05]** You were on your way to being a really good coach.

**[37:08]** If you were willing to say something like that versus head coach sits you

**[37:11]** down and is like, I really trying very hard on this day.

**[37:15]** And you're like, it's dumb.

**[37:16]** Deadlift only.

**[37:18]** Like, you know what I mean?

**[37:18]** That sort of thing.

**[37:19]** So I would say from a head coaching standpoint, try to figure out a way to

**[37:24]** do that without triggering the coach.

**[37:26]** And then if you are a coach and you're younger or, you know, not as, not as, you know, what is the word?

**[37:33]** I would say conditioned, but like seasoned as much experience as much experience or not as seasoned.

**[37:39]** Go to the people that do a good job on those days. Right. Like you take most of your taking classes

**[37:44]** and you do a lift only day and go, that's how that's done. And you can just, you know,

**[37:49]** buy the other coach a cup of coffee and ask them how they do it, how they think about it.

**[37:52]** All right, so we mentioned the bench press that's going to be in there.

**[37:57]** We will get to it with the gymnastics bias, but it's the right segue here because pulling

**[38:04]** directly from overhead and pressing overhead and pressing in the direction of the bench

**[38:10]** press.

**[38:11]** We want to be who doesn't want a stronger bench press.

**[38:13]** I mean, come on, like we want that.

**[38:15]** Everyone wants to be able to be better on that pull up bar and on that wall.

**[38:21]** Crossfitters being obsessed with showing off their gymnastics is never ever ever going

**[38:25]** away.

**[38:26]** The sense of pride when you have those skillsets is huge, but also from a like straight up

**[38:32]** strength and conditioning perspective, strong healthy shoulders through pressing in different

**[38:37]** planes, pulling in different planes, which will also get into traction in the shoulder

**[38:41]** that you get from hanging from a pull up bar, all of that stuff, coordination elements and

**[38:46]** the longevity in the idea of being able to kick upside down and hold yourself in that

**[38:51]** position.

**[38:52]** Not a whole lot of people that can, you know, can do handstand holds or struggling to get

**[38:57]** up off the floor kind of a thing.

**[38:59]** So that's why things like this matter, even though the bench press itself is like, it's

**[39:06]** kind of funny that it's a staple of strength and conditioning and it's like a chest press,

**[39:12]** right?

**[39:13]** Yeah.

**[39:14]** It's not a clean, it's not a snatch.

**[39:15]** as big and as important as those things,

**[39:19]** but it is a thing that we know helps the entire system

**[39:23]** sort of top to bottom.

**[39:25]** So again, gymnastics bias, that segue there,

**[39:28]** strict pulling alternates weeks with strict pressing.

**[39:31]** There are standalone gymnastics strength sessions

**[39:34]** and there are alternating sort of in week,

**[39:38]** or in workout on those other weeks.

**[39:40]** And it's not precisely this week, then that week,

**[39:43]** then this week, then that week,

**[39:45]** especially with Murph in there,

**[39:46]** but the dose over the course of the eight weeks

**[39:49]** is nice and even in terms of like,

**[39:52]** is it outside of the workout?
