---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397"
published: 2026-04-28
episode_number: "397"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:50"
chunk_end: "59:49"
topics: ["Open", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397 - Chunk 6

Episode: [The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:50]** It's hard to have a program of isometrics built into a CrossFit class with all the other

**[49:57]** stuff that we're trying to do.

**[49:59]** I'll add to that the eccentrics as well are really, really useful.

**[50:04]** Eccentric pull-ups, like a slow lowering, eccentric ring row, a eccentric bench press,

**[50:11]** or even a full push-up to the ground.

**[50:15]** You can add plates and a deficit push-up eccentric.

**[50:18]** Really great for one-

**[50:19]** Those are in my program right now, the eccentric pushups.

**[50:22]** And like, if you go slow, full range of motion,

**[50:25]** sets a tenor hard.

**[50:27]** Oh, yeah, for sure.

**[50:28]** Yeah.

**[50:29]** Those are great warm up.

**[50:30]** Like, make it an easy version of the movement as a warm up.

**[50:34]** The eccentrics are one, like, physical therapists

**[50:37]** use eccentrics for rehab pretty regularly,

**[50:39]** but they're also great for warming up tissues.

**[50:42]** And then, like, honestly, you even

**[50:44]** have to be a little bit careful for the wrong person.

**[50:46]** You accidentally make them do too many eccentrics.

**[50:48]** like they talk about soreness,

**[50:50]** like you can be more fucked up than anybody.

**[50:54]** That's why they always tell you like,

**[50:57]** if you're gonna do filthy 50,

**[50:58]** like don't lower yourself doing the jumping pull ups.

**[51:01]** You're gonna fucking die.

**[51:03]** But yeah, all different, lots of different like variants

**[51:06]** that you can add to these like,

**[51:08]** get them pressing, get them pulling,

**[51:10]** make them do it strict.

**[51:12]** Any version of that with a big full range of motion

**[51:15]** is gonna get them fitter and stronger.

**[51:17]** Yeah. And you, it's part of your job is working in the propaganda of patients. Like, I didn't

**[51:26]** ask you to come in here to check off a few boxes and then go home, right? We are here

**[51:33]** for a long time, not a good time. It's the opposite of the same.

**[51:37]** That's literally, I've said that before. Hey, motherfuckers.

**[51:40]** We might need a misfit affiliate.

**[51:41]** Trying to make you here for a long time, not a good time here.

**[51:43]** That might be a new Miss It affiliate shirt right there.

**[51:46]** But getting them to buy into that because that's when you get to have that conversation.

**[51:51]** The compound, you know, part one, 2027, it's like, I'm glad you stayed because we're finally

**[51:57]** doing real strict pull ups or whatever.

**[52:00]** That's the time horizon that we have.

**[52:02]** And buying into that is super important.

**[52:04]** Be like, all right, we're going to keep it super basic here.

**[52:08]** And then tomorrow, it's just good old fashioned carnage.

**[52:12]** you're going to get that out of your system and work on that.

**[52:16]** And then we're going to come back around to this thing and it's going to be frustrating,

**[52:19]** but then they're going to come together and make a GPP baby.

**[52:24]** Honestly think of the first three days of the new phase, it's going to be like, it's

**[52:28]** going to be that.

**[52:29]** Yeah.

**[52:30]** So this was-

**[52:31]** Day one, two.

**[52:32]** This was-

**[52:33]** Kill everybody.

**[52:34]** When is the last time, Hunter, that you can remember me being absent from a programming

**[52:38]** meeting?

**[52:39]** Oh, man.

**[52:40]** I couldn't-

**[52:41]** I can't recall one where we've run it.

**[52:43]** Yeah.

**[52:44]** Like, well, most of them you were either running it, but.

**[52:46]** So I did an analysis of all of the programming outside of the programming meeting because

**[52:52]** I was traveling.

**[52:53]** And those first few days I was like, yes, Hunter, I love a tone setter.

**[52:57]** I've always liked it.

**[52:58]** I think it's the tone setter was intentional.

**[53:01]** The Wednesday was like, you missed the tone.

**[53:04]** Okay, well, fucking leave a message.

**[53:06]** And we did have to modify Thursday slightly

**[53:10]** to be a little bit friendlier on the old stems,

**[53:13]** but they'll probably be fine.

**[53:14]** Yeah, they'll probably be fine.

**[53:15]** You don't even use your legs on Friday.

**[53:17]** It's just biking, rowing, and burpees, it's easy.

**[53:19]** Coaches aren't the only people who need rites of passage.

**[53:22]** Athletes need rites of passage,

**[53:24]** and there are definitely cross-bit rites of passage.

**[53:26]** I've got your fucking rites, last rites here.

**[53:30]** I'll bless you off.

**[53:32]** Throw some holly water at your head.

**[53:33]** All right, conditioning.

**[53:36]** So this is always a funny one.

**[53:40]** Just saying it is even funny.

**[53:42]** Like this, the entire point of the entire program after we spend all of that time talking

**[53:47]** about the intricate details of stuff that pops up seven, eight, nine, 10 times in a

**[53:52]** phase and the thing that pops up 40 times in the phase is getting your ass in shape.

**[53:58]** So we'll talk about it, but we don't need to spend a ton of time on it running one to

**[54:05]** two times per week.

**[54:07]** Hunter, this is probably, I would say the change of trying to make the monostructural

**[54:16]** esque programming more digestible is like people probably don't notice it as much because

**[54:22]** it just looks like CrossFit.

**[54:23]** But I would say that's one of the bigger changes to our program in the last like 12 to 18

**[54:28]** months. And I laugh because I still see what it is. I'm seeing the forest through the trees.

**[54:38]** In my mind goes to, if we have any trailer park boys fans out there, Ricky eats and drinks

**[54:44]** some questionable things. Everyone else has cups and he has the bottom of a two liter

**[54:49]** bottle is his cup. You have the five points he drinks out of that the whole show. Even

**[54:56]** No, you can tell there's cups.

**[54:57]** And they're in a real rough spot.

**[55:00]** They don't have any money.

**[55:00]** They don't have any food.

**[55:02]** So Ricky is dipping breadheels in bacon grease.

**[55:06]** And Bubbles comes out of his tent and he's like,

**[55:10]** dirty old breadheels in bacon grease.

**[55:13]** You ain't tricking me, are you?

**[55:14]** You tried to.

**[55:15]** You ain't tricking me, are you?

**[55:15]** Breadheels in bacon grease.

**[55:17]** Breadheels in bacon grease.

**[55:19]** So yes, we are tricking you.

**[55:21]** You are still doing monostructural conditioning.

**[55:25]** You are still, but I think there's just an element of not, I don't think we were ever

**[55:32]** intended to do monostructural when it came up and oftentimes was rotated through.

**[55:40]** You are doing only conditioning or only weightlifting or only in gymnastics.

**[55:45]** Are we biasing too much on the end of straight up machine stuff?

**[55:50]** It's also the flavor of the month within CrossFit, that kind of thing, because we bleed the competitive

**[55:57]** into the actual CrossFit affiliate setting, which we shouldn't do as often unless we just

**[56:03]** find something new that works that we know is going to help our members.

**[56:09]** It's still there, still very much there, but it has enough elements mixed into it that

**[56:14]** I think we get more GPP out of it and we also make it more, if it's more digestible and

**[56:19]** and it still brings the heat,

**[56:20]** then that's a win-win for a programmer and member.

**[56:23]** Yeah, I almost even think that just like,

**[56:25]** it's like if you didn't see the spreadsheet

**[56:28]** that we're looking at as far as like the title of the day,

**[56:31]** it's like, this is cardio day.

**[56:33]** It's like, no, it's a Metcon.

**[56:35]** It's like, it's a CrossFit Metcon.

**[56:37]** And like, that's effectively all it is.

**[56:40]** You peeped out a Tuesday, May 12th guy?

**[56:42]** See, I peeped all of them.

**[56:44]** Yeah, yeah, yeah, of course I did.

**[56:46]** You kidding me?

**[56:47]** Yeah.

**[56:48]** You kidding me?

**[56:49]** And it's tough for me to read stuff like that because I

**[56:54]** Kyle asked if he was allowed to plug that. I just spent. I didn't plug that in there

**[56:58]** I just wrote the acronym and wrote death awaits and Kyle

**[57:01]** requested permission and I had to like I waited to respond for a couple hours because I needed to like

**[57:07]** mentally prepare myself to do that. Yeah, that's the thing. To myself and then

**[57:12]** I just spent every morning this week Friday Saturday Sunday in this chair

**[57:17]** talking to the people at Legends about how to execute.

**[57:22]** And it can be so funny how easy it is for my old ass

**[57:26]** to sit in this chair and just talk about it, right?

**[57:30]** I'm writing these workouts down.

**[57:32]** Like that side of things is always somewhat amusing to me

**[57:36]** and not lost on me.

**[57:37]** But I am so bad at medium duration pain

**[57:43]** that when I see a hundred slash 80 calorie air bike,

**[57:47]** It's just like, dude, a seven year old kid

**[57:52]** could walk into the gym that's never been on the bike

**[57:55]** and they'd be pretty close to me at some point

**[57:57]** in wattage on that thing, right?

**[57:59]** Like, I'm not a small guy, I ride the bike a lot,

**[58:03]** I'm probably better at this now than I have been before,

**[58:07]** but like when you're in a gym like Misfit Gym Portland,

**[58:11]** you get your ass handed to you by someone

**[58:14]** that you wouldn't think would do that to you.

**[58:16]** And it is so humbling.

**[58:18]** I'm scared.

**[58:19]** It's scary.

**[58:20]** The worst part about it is,

**[58:21]** is it's been long enough that I've done that.

**[58:23]** It's like, I now need to think back

**[58:25]** to other shitty bike workouts that I've done.

**[58:28]** But I've also like, in the last year,

**[58:31]** I would say I've felt like my personal fitness dip

**[58:34]** a little bit more than maybe historically.

**[58:37]** And I'm like, I see that.

**[58:38]** And I'm like, I think I need a new strategy.

**[58:41]** I don't think that the strategy from Hunter three years ago

**[58:45]** of rip off 40 cows in the first minute

**[58:49]** and then like thoughts and prayers.

**[58:51]** You're right.

**[58:53]** I don't know if that's it anymore.

**[58:54]** I'm gonna see a sub 300 watts hanging around there

**[58:57]** for a minute if I accidentally do that.

**[58:59]** The reason this is harder than everything else

**[59:04]** is because you can go hard relative to you, obviously.

**[59:09]** The whole time, but it's too long to stay out of your head.

**[59:14]** Like you can make something else hurt more by sprinting, but it's the aftermath.

**[59:20]** And it's almost to me kind of funny when you do something like that.

**[59:23]** There is nothing funny about being at calorie 64 and have nothing.

**[59:29]** You have something left, but your brain's got nothing.

**[59:32]** And you just, the amount of like mental gymnastics that take place of like, if I walk out now,

**[59:39]** I probably can't come back to the gym ever, but I could leave.

**[59:43]** And then, ooh, I got a second wind or my ninth wind.

**[59:46]** I'm going after it.

**[59:47]** And then you hit six calories.
