---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397"
published: 2026-04-28
episode_number: "397"
chunk_index: 8
chunk_start: "01:09:46"
chunk_end: "01:19:44"
topics: ["Open", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397 - Chunk 8

Episode: [[../episode|The Compound P.1: Misfit Affiliate. New Season. New Phase E.397]]

## Transcript

**[01:09:46]** was like, I want you to do one thing to get better on the rower, that would be the foundation

**[01:09:50]** for me.

**[01:09:51]** Second thing is going to be technique in the Olympic lifts, transitioning all the way out

**[01:09:55]** to heavier Olympic lifts in the winter.

**[01:09:58]** We're just going to work through positional stuff and make sure that athletes really understand

**[01:10:02]** how to move their body around a barbell.

**[01:10:04]** That is how you're actually going to help get them better because in class, we're deadlifting,

**[01:10:09]** back squatting, we're doing all of these things for a strength foundation.

**[01:10:13]** We want that to mix with technique, not also with heavy lifts.

**[01:10:17]** The way that we offset that to make sure that we're still comfortable with

**[01:10:20]** heavy Olympic lifts is by doing power snatch, power clean, things of that nature.

**[01:10:25]** That helps us essentially grease the groove of that dynamic first

**[01:10:29]** pull with the technique stuff.

**[01:10:31]** So that's that I would say that's number two.

**[01:10:33]** Number three, longer, slower gymnastics progressions.

**[01:10:37]** So we have the hand, I'll use the handstand pushup example that you've already seen a couple of times and that you're going to keep seeing two rounds, one smooth set of wall facing rest, one smooth set of strict handstand pushups, rest, one smooth set of kipping handstand pushups, and then a bigger rest.

**[01:10:55]** Even if your athlete is that one, that person that's like,

**[01:10:59]** wow, they want to be a competitor, that's surprising to me.

**[01:11:02]** And then they're that one, two, three years down the road

**[01:11:04]** that wins your local comp.

**[01:11:06]** I'm OK with them getting one wall facing.

**[01:11:11]** See you, Hunter.

**[01:11:12]** One wall facing, two strict and five kipping.

**[01:11:15]** And then 12 sessions later in the year,

**[01:11:18]** doing a couple more here, a couple more there.

**[01:11:20]** That is what we're looking for.

**[01:11:21]** And I would allow athletes to do that,

**[01:11:23]** where I wouldn't normally allow an athlete to do that.

**[01:11:27]** We're going to do this session over and over and over, and we're going to

**[01:11:30]** try to build on that, and then we're just going to get those touch points

**[01:11:33]** on the other movements as they don't show up.

**[01:11:35]** So again, longer, slower gymnastics progressions that should lead an athlete

**[01:11:39]** to the open and quarterfinals.

**[01:11:40]** And then last but not least, volume weightlifting and accessories.

**[01:11:45]** It can be challenging, especially if we do, do in two things in class,

**[01:11:48]** like a 10, 10, 10 back squat, and then asking them to go actually

**[01:11:52]** execute on something, but strength endurance is so much more applicable to being better

**[01:11:58]** at the opening quarterfinals than overall strength.

**[01:12:02]** So we are going to have that stuff in there.

**[01:12:04]** We're going to have sets of 10 and sets of eight and sets of six in our compound movements

**[01:12:09]** so that athletes can actually use the stuff that they're going to do.

**[01:12:14]** So again, those four main goals over the course of the whole year, technique in the Olympic

**[01:12:18]** lifts, rowing monsters, longer, slower gymnastics, progressions to really build a base and then

**[01:12:23]** volume weightlifting to be like, yeah, you want to have a one rep max so that like you're

**[01:12:29]** happy on a random Wednesday when we test it.

**[01:12:32]** But then you go to do super heavy front squats and quarterfinals and they're not there for

**[01:12:36]** you.

**[01:12:37]** So we're going to make sure that we sort of have that there.

**[01:12:39]** So those are my goals for the competitor extra over the year.

**[01:12:42]** And aside from that, you can expect the usual, the variance, you know, skill, accessory,

**[01:12:47]** conditioning, all that good stuff.

**[01:12:49]** Yeah, I think when you look at the whole programming,

**[01:12:54]** as far as I have already, that makes it,

**[01:12:56]** especially for a competitor, super well-rounded.

**[01:13:00]** There's not a whole ton that's missing from there.

**[01:13:02]** You can kind of easily pick out your areas to work on.

**[01:13:08]** And that's an important note, too.

**[01:13:10]** That's how I think most people should

**[01:13:12]** use the competitor extra.

**[01:13:14]** Maybe I'm, I don't know, I'm open curious.

**[01:13:17]** Like, I just gonna pick a thing to work on.

**[01:13:20]** I know that like leading into arrest day

**[01:13:23]** or coming off arrest day,

**[01:13:25]** I've got the juice to work on my strict pressing

**[01:13:28]** or, you know, I'm gonna do my zone two rowing.

**[01:13:30]** I'm just gonna pick one of those things.

**[01:13:32]** And then eight weeks or 16 weeks or 24 weeks goes by

**[01:13:36]** and it's like, I think I could do two per week.

**[01:13:38]** I think I could, you know, between, you know,

**[01:13:40]** on each side of arrest day, I could have one.

**[01:13:42]** And eventually you would work yourself to a point

**[01:13:44]** where you're using it as a true competitive athlete program,

**[01:13:48]** but a lot of people just like more volume.

**[01:13:52]** So it's the snap of the finger,

**[01:13:53]** wow, there's a competitor extra now,

**[01:13:55]** my gym signed up for this, this is great.

**[01:13:57]** It's a good chance that there's gonna be

**[01:13:58]** some junk volume mixed in there because just,

**[01:14:02]** you know, one and done to two every single day

**[01:14:05]** is a huge leap, doubling your programming is a big deal.

**[01:14:08]** Okay, so before coaches are people too,

**[01:14:10]** We had a question on Telegram from Dustin Campbell,

**[01:14:14]** curious to other affiliate owners,

**[01:14:16]** do you still use an on-ramp slash onboarding program

**[01:14:19]** for new members?

**[01:14:20]** If so, what is it?

**[01:14:21]** Thank you.

**[01:14:22]** This is, man, this is like a question as old as time.

**[01:14:26]** And it's really such a mix of business ownership

**[01:14:31]** and what the perfect ideal scenario is

**[01:14:33]** and what's actually realistic.

**[01:14:35]** And we have so many examples of things like that

**[01:14:38]** in coaching, programming, athlete execution,

**[01:14:41]** but also on the business side.

**[01:14:43]** And at the end of the day,

**[01:14:45]** if you have this perfect system

**[01:14:48]** and you're delivering an amazing product to 82 people

**[01:14:51]** versus it's imperfect,

**[01:14:54]** but eventually all of the people that didn't come

**[01:14:57]** because it wasn't convenient lead us to 200 members.

**[01:15:01]** And I'm delivering the gospel to twice as many people.

**[01:15:05]** That's a decision that you have to make.

**[01:15:07]** Some people are in markets where you can be idealistic, right?

**[01:15:11]** I remember back in the day, like, honestly, no offense to anybody, but

**[01:15:15]** like gyms that weren't run very well, but they were like the only game in town and

**[01:15:19]** they were in a city and there was like a college and they're like shooing members away.

**[01:15:23]** I personally would have a really detailed on-ramp class in that scenario.

**[01:15:28]** If I was starting out as a gym and I was trying to get people in the door,

**[01:15:32]** I wouldn't have it.

**[01:15:33]** I would have more time and energy to put into getting that member in.

**[01:15:37]** And I think there's so many different answers to that question.

**[01:15:41]** And it can be tough because you try a bunch of different things and you see the

**[01:15:46]** pros and cons to all of it.

**[01:15:47]** But I wanted to bring it up because one, I don't think there's a perfect answer.

**[01:15:51]** I think you need the answer for your situation and then Hunter, you're an

**[01:15:55]** affiliate owner now, and you're really wrapped up in the idea of, yes, I want

**[01:16:00]** to deliver the best product I can, but if I can't get them in the door, then

**[01:16:03]** there's no product. So like how you're thinking about that now.

**[01:16:07]** Um, I'll just tell you what will give people the, the rundown of what we used to

**[01:16:12]** do that we've gone almost to two fairly extreme ends. One is like, you're going to

**[01:16:17]** do a three day a week, three week on-ramp program. And we did that for a long time.

**[01:16:23]** The good news is those people felt and were ready to join class. The on-ramp

**[01:16:28]** program three times a week for three weeks does not make a person go from, you

**[01:16:33]** couch to 5k so to speak, but it does give them the, like you said, if I for whatever

**[01:16:39]** reason was in a scenario where I needed to turn down members, the barrier to entry might

**[01:16:44]** be a little bit higher, right? As far as like, hey, if you want to be here, this is what

**[01:16:48]** it's going to require of you. And if you don't, that's fine because I've got plenty of people

**[01:16:53]** here. I am not in that situation. It'd be real cool to get there. What we do now is

**[01:16:59]** You get a free trial class, you're going to jump in.

**[01:17:02]** And again, this is like, I'll provide background in a second, like free class,

**[01:17:07]** whatever class time works for you, come in.

**[01:17:10]** We make sure the coach is aware that you have a drop in.

**[01:17:13]** That person has already like they've contacted.

**[01:17:16]** This is not and this is also not a like you're brand new to CrossFit.

**[01:17:19]** You just show up at the class time.

**[01:17:20]** It's going to be like, hey, we'd love to have you another time.

**[01:17:24]** It's not going to be like just straight up come in, surprise the coach.

**[01:17:27]** which also I've never done CrossFit before.

**[01:17:29]** But for the most part, like you have to think

**[01:17:32]** the people who are reaching out to you

**[01:17:34]** probably have some idea of what's going on.

**[01:17:37]** I don't know that I've ever had somebody come in

**[01:17:39]** and be like, hey, I have no idea what CrossFit is,

**[01:17:42]** what you do here.

**[01:17:43]** I just saw the building and decided to walk in

**[01:17:45]** and I want to pay you $200 a month.

**[01:17:49]** We give people the free class,

**[01:17:51]** give them the chance like, hey, would you like to join?

**[01:17:54]** And that's kind of the point at which they make a decision

**[01:17:56]** would join or not, as part of their like membership, they get a free one on one, basically

**[01:18:02]** a free personal training session that's anywhere from an hour to an hour and a half with me

**[01:18:06]** and Kyle, or me or Kyle, and we go through essentially the nine foundational movements

**[01:18:12]** to the extent that they're capable of it.

**[01:18:14]** If they happen to be moving really well, we can move a little bit quicker, give them go

**[01:18:20]** into further detail on other movements and stuff like that.

**[01:18:23]** If they're a little bit newer, which is more often the case, we stick with the fundamentals.

**[01:18:28]** And then from there, we essentially rely on communication between myself and the coaches

**[01:18:35]** that say like, hey, this is so and so, this is the deal.

**[01:18:40]** They're brand new.

**[01:18:41]** They can't do X, Y, or Z. And one thing Kyle actually started doing a while ago was like,

**[01:18:48]** this member is very similar to this member.

**[01:18:52]** So this new person is very similar to ex-member who's been here for a long time and immediately

**[01:18:57]** coaches are like, oh, got it.

**[01:18:59]** Like I can compare that person.

**[01:19:01]** The reason that this works or has worked better for us than previous iterations of this is

**[01:19:06]** like one, like their first, one of their first touch points is me or Kyle, like one of our

**[01:19:12]** two full-time people.

**[01:19:14]** And it's like, not that our other coaches can't do it.

**[01:19:18]** They're just like, the availability just isn't there for those coaches.

**[01:19:21]** And it's really important to me that like they get like, I will get so fucking deep

**[01:19:26]** in the weeds on the squat, like with that person that they don't need to ever learn

**[01:19:31]** how to squat again, hopefully.

**[01:19:33]** Same with the deadlift, same with the press, you know, those sorts of movements, but they

**[01:19:36]** are getting like a trusted touch point between myself or Kyle to make sure that they are

**[01:19:42]** set up for success.
