---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376"
published: 2025-11-18
episode_number: "376"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:57"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits. Alright, you can't take a bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said either.

**[00:19]** Good morning, Misfits. You were tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast on today's episode.

**[00:25]** We got some fun and big announcements, a little bit of talking about the future for both of us,

**[00:32]** Hunter and I, Misfit Athletics, Misfit Jim Portland, potentially a trip down memory lane,

**[00:37]** talking through a few things. And honestly, we got a bunch of announcements today, which is fun.

**[00:45]** We're going to push life chat because life chat is the entire episode. So we're going to go in

**[00:48]** reverse order here. Yeah. Okay. You haven't heard normally either during the ad, we tried all kinds

**[00:55]** of different things. But during the podcast, you haven't heard us say this episode is brought to

**[00:59]** you by in a very long time. And there's multiple reasons for that. Proper doesn't exist anymore,

**[01:06]** for the OGs that were proper fans. We've scaled back at least the amount with Sharpen the Axe

**[01:12]** to focus on writing the old 21 Finns and getting after it in the affiliate setting.

**[01:16]** And then I don't really respond to the shitty sponsorship offers anymore. You feel different

**[01:22]** about someone being like, hey, we'll give you a dollar to sell our massage gun to thousands of

**[01:28]** people. When you're like late 20s, early 30s, you're like, wow, I must be special if this

**[01:32]** person's emailing. So we get a lot of requests for people to join the podcast as well as guests.

**[01:38]** They want to do paid guests. So someone can like tell us about their book or their TikTok channel

**[01:43]** or God knows what. And it's like always just, there's no way our listeners would want to hear

**[01:48]** the people.

**[01:49]** So dumb.

**[01:50]** Yeah, so hard pass.

**[01:52]** But we have a sponsor now, and this is my white whale.

**[01:54]** Not only did this company not try to sponsor us actively on their end, it took me like

**[02:00]** a year and a half to get in touch with them.

**[02:02]** And I tried everything.

**[02:04]** But here's the crazy-

**[02:05]** It's actually crazy that you went far enough to like, that's a pretty, that's kind of a

**[02:10]** miracle in itself that you actually pursued them.

**[02:13]** I buy so much of their products, it's like, man, I want the discount code from myself

**[02:18]** to myself. So the genesis of, for those that are newer listeners that don't know, a group

**[02:24]** of us started a supplement company four or five years ago called Proper Fuel. And the

**[02:30]** basis for it was actually putting the ingredients in the amounts that would help someone into

**[02:36]** a supplement. I know that's mind blowing, but you guys are hearing, we do the episodes

**[02:41]** where we talk about the supplements that actually work and stuff that you should take, and everyone

**[02:46]** sells those supplements, they just don't tell you that you either need to take nine servings

**[02:50]** or basically it's just not enough of the thing to actually make a difference. And the industry

**[02:55]** refers to that as buying expensive urine, essentially.

**[03:00]** So the IE went down a pretty crazy rabbit hole to come up with those products. I actually

**[03:06]** used to mix my own. I used to like make my own pre-workout in a jar and it tasted wild.

**[03:12]** Make your head twitch like the cop and dum and dumber after he drinks the beer bottle.

**[03:16]** And I would mix up large batches of the post-workout stuff. And a lot of this came from a YouTube channel called Derek More Plates More Dates.

**[03:28]** And this dude, basically if you took a high-level bodybuilder and a chemist and made them into one human being, that's Derek.

**[03:38]** So, his niche, the way that his interests and the way that his mind works crossing is

**[03:43]** someone that's extremely interesting to me.

**[03:45]** Because obviously, in academia, being a meathead is not...it's probably frowned upon, but it's

**[03:51]** just not all that common.

**[03:52]** So I got a ton of my inspiration to start the company and to develop the products in

**[03:56]** the way that I did, even at the cost of them costing a lot to manufacture.

**[04:01]** I got that from him.

**[04:02]** So he has his own supplement company, really big company, not really very relevant in the

**[04:07]** CrossFit space. That was kind of my pitch. Like, hey, you guys have the best stuff, but

**[04:11]** I don't see you anywhere in the CrossFit space. And honestly, like outside of proper for us,

**[04:18]** we've seen the revolving door of like Progenics and Ascent and all these different companies.

**[04:23]** And it's like they put a bunch of ad spend in to try to get like a foothold. And then

**[04:28]** they realized that they probably can't or that like, basically, the people who have

**[04:32]** agents just keep moving on from company to company.

**[04:35]** So our new sponsor for the show is Guerrilla My, and I'll tell you guys a little bit about

**[04:41]** what I buy from them, what they have, all that good stuff. And I will not force you

**[04:47]** guys through a multiple minute ad read again. I'll do some content on social media as well,

**[04:54]** but I figured because of how this happened that I should take the time to explain it

**[04:59]** to you guys. And it's just this is the doses in these things are very potent and they actually

**[05:06]** work and you can actually feel them. And some of them are the kind of things where it's

**[05:09]** like a tool that you would use only occasionally. And it's just nice to know that you're actually

**[05:15]** feeling something, you know, sort of different.

**[05:17]** So products that I have had on auto ship from Gorilla Mind since proper ended. I do their

**[05:23]** away protein, I do chocolate in my smoothie. I've got my smoothie recipe dialed, anybody

**[05:29]** needs it. Dad mode, smoothie in the morning, not having to cook is a game changer. Get

**[05:35]** your macros kind of exactly where you want them. And then I've posted on social, but

**[05:39]** I do there, they have a vanilla ice cream flavor and that mixed with orange Gatorade

**[05:44]** is excellent post workout.

**[05:46]** I actually have a new I... Yeah, I had you try the recipe. I have a new idea for that

**[05:52]** that I'm going to try and I'll explain here in a second.

**[05:54]** So the Grill Away, they have an energy drink

**[05:58]** that you've probably seen me drinking in almost every episode.

**[06:02]** And a podcast is a setting where I

**[06:04]** would drink this energy drink.

**[06:06]** I'm more of a like two or three cups of coffee a day kind of guy.

**[06:09]** But I'm also like this right here

**[06:13]** is all of the pill bottles that used

**[06:14]** to be like lined up on my desk that I would take before

**[06:17]** a podcast, the like nootropics and stuff.

**[06:19]** So they sell energy drinks that are like really high level

**[06:24]** nootropics.

**[06:25]** And the way that I've kind of like made sure

**[06:28]** that I'm not just like a guy named Kyle driving a Subaru,

**[06:32]** no offense to our Kyle.

**[06:33]** He's not really actually a Kyle.

**[06:34]** But that's the meme of like the monster energy drink.

**[06:37]** He's honestly the most opposite of a Kyle that you can use.

**[06:40]** It is true.

**[06:41]** It's funny though.

**[06:42]** So if you ever pulls in a WRX Hunter.

**[06:44]** I think Jack got a Subaru.

**[06:46]** They might have a Subaru, but I'm talking.

**[06:48]** It better be blue and it better have a spoiler and it better be loud.

**[06:51]** Yeah, gold rims, spoiler.

**[06:53]** Exactly.

**[06:54]** Yeah.

**[06:55]** So to make sure that like I'm from Maine, my family's from northern Maine, I'm bearded

**[06:59]** up and wearing a flannel in this video right now.

**[07:02]** So you might not trust me that I'm not really an energy drink person, but my wife is also

**[07:08]** the opposite of a Kyle to the nth degree, even more than our Kyle.

**[07:12]** My wife's not a Kyle.

**[07:14]** Yeah, I mean.

**[07:17]** So she's not drinking an energy drink.

**[07:21]** Not drinking an energy drink.

**[07:23]** Does she drink coffee?

**[07:24]** Does my drink coffee?

**[07:25]** Yep.

**[07:26]** She's a coffee drinker.

**[07:28]** But she's also a mom and has a fancy pants job that she takes extremely seriously.

**[07:35]** And what's been happening to my cases of Gorilla Mine energy drink, because they're going away.

**[07:40]** And I see them on her desk.

**[07:42]** And she's just like, like, it's funny too, because she like drinks them warm, like she

**[07:46]** She just go down and like grab, she's just like, I need the brain power basically.

**[07:52]** So I've got her on these, which again, never in a million years would happen.

**[07:56]** She's also not the kind of person who's gonna, if I laid out like 12 pills, she'd be like,

**[08:00]** you're an idiot.

**[08:01]** Like I'm going upstairs.

**[08:02]** Yeah.

**[08:03]** So, there's a lot of flavors and white frost is my goat currently.

**[08:09]** So if you guys are looking to get into that, and I'll explain why this is really good timing

**[08:14]** in a second.

**[08:15]** 3s I get from them. They have the Omega 3 Elixir. 2 grams per serving of Omega's and

**[08:21]** over a gram of EPA. And EPA is really good for mental acuity, really good research on

**[08:26]** using it for fighting depression. And I take two servings of that basically every day.

**[08:31]** And just, again, like actual dosages that will work. Creatine, beta alanine, and collagen.

**[08:38]** Collagen's good from them because it's actually flavored. And so if you are looking to get

**[08:43]** a little bit of extra protein, different type of protein. You can get it from them that

**[08:47]** way. They also have both kinds of creatine. So I know that there's a few people at our

**[08:51]** gym in Portland and all over the internet that don't take creatine because it messes

**[08:56]** with their stomach. And creatine HCL, I believe it is, is essentially kind of like when we

**[09:02]** talk about proteins, like whey protein that's broken down more, it's a lot easier on the

**[09:07]** stomach. It's a little bit more expensive, but the absorption is really good. Like one

**[09:11]** of those things where if you stirred it into water, it would actually mix. So they do have

**[09:14]** both kinds. One thing that I did not know that they have that I'm really excited to

**[09:18]** try is they have an intra-workout, which is creatine, carbs, and salt. So if you take

**[09:23]** two scoops of it, you get 84 grams of carbs, 5 grams of creatine, a full gram of sodium,

**[09:30]** and would be the kind of thing where like if you're training a lot, having a shaker

**[09:34]** full of that would be pretty crazy. So they have got like stress and sleep supplements,

**[09:38]** that I plan on trying. But basically, the timing is awesome because everything that

**[09:43]** they have right now is 40, 30, or 20% off in their store. They started Black Friday

**[09:48]** early and you can add our code to that. So it goes 50, 40, 30 for basically everything.

**[09:53]** And that's obviously like, if you want to take my word for it, I'm going to give it
