---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376"
published: 2025-11-18
episode_number: "376"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:53"
chunk_end: "29:52"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376 - Chunk 3

Episode: [[../episode|Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376]]

## Transcript

**[19:53]** If you're a world class at something and you can deliver it to your members, it's kind

**[19:57]** of a...

**[19:58]** It would be...

**[19:59]** I think you would have a revolt if you started following somebody else's program.

**[20:04]** Yeah.

**[20:05]** You know what's funny too is along...

**[20:07]** Go ahead.

**[20:08]** Go ahead.

**[20:09]** Complete aside.

**[20:10]** No, you're good.

**[20:11]** I didn't have any more deep thoughts related.

**[20:12]** No, I was just going to say, I've had conversations with...

**[20:15]** Just on the programming thing in general, I've had conversations with people about like,

**[20:19]** what about have you used AI and my and so like and this was a single conversation that I had with the with some close friends and I was like no like I don't use AI.

**[20:29]** As a matter of fact I've disciplined programmers for when I review programming I'd say like I can tell when something is written by AI relative to the other person and I was like don't fucking do that this is like this is what we do like you are better at it and through that conversation they were like yeah but if you feed it a lot of information.

**[20:48]** a lot of information, like you'd be surprised at how good it is.

**[20:52]** And so as a small experiment, I did, I fed chat GPT specifically, maybe there's a better

**[20:57]** platform for it, but a lot of information, a lot of details, a lot of like everything

**[21:03]** it could ask for, and it still did not spit out what I would publish without serious edits

**[21:10]** and changes.

**[21:11]** And I was like, and you know, I say that now on November 2025 and maybe in fucking February

**[21:17]** 2026, it changes over, but it's not today.

**[21:22]** It only has, it does not have the ability to develop new ideas and concepts and progressions.

**[21:31]** At this point, essentially a glorified aggregator search engine, that sort of thing.

**[21:38]** Yeah, for sure.

**[21:38]** Like basically we've been like Google supposedly created the greatest search algorithm ever

**[21:45]** and you cannot pull up a file in Sheets or Google Drive.

**[21:50]** You literally type in the name of the file and it doesn't show up.

**[21:53]** The exact name of the file.

**[21:55]** ChatGPT now can search things.

**[21:57]** And it has been fed a lot of information but like the idea of creativity and nuance.

**[22:03]** Yeah.

**[22:04]** The person who would use AI for programming, and listen, if you use it as a tool to be

**[22:10]** like, tell me how many times, tell me what our biases are or something like that.

**[22:14]** Like if you use it as a tool to tell you things, that would be great just because like, I always

**[22:19]** have it up when I'm programming now because I can do like obscure running math in like

**[22:25]** two seconds instead of like, I used to use an online run calculator and you had to like

**[22:29]** toggle between different tabs based on where you're trying to come up with distance or

**[22:33]** time or whatever or pace. And the idea of, again, the creativity, the nuance, all that,

**[22:39]** that is what is exciting to us. That's what makes you come back and be like,

**[22:43]** how do I make this better? And if you want, basically, that's like playing boggle with

**[22:49]** workouts. You're taking your workouts and you're shaking them up and they pop out.

**[22:54]** Yeah, it's a bit of a hopper model, but without quality control. But yeah,

**[22:59]** It was it was really interesting to see it. I even I had it do I was like trying to get it to write a few weeks

**[23:05]** Of the workout with our clean because we've been doing what are we in right now? We're deadlifting right now

**[23:10]** I gave it like last phase

**[23:12]** Like hey Duke prior like the clean try to try to structure the clean in the workout in the way that we've done

**[23:18]** historically misfit affiliate has done it and

**[23:21]** motherfucker that

**[23:22]** Goddamn AI just sent. Oh, whoa. Sorry

**[23:26]** I know. AI spat out like five days in a row of like hang clean, squat clean, clean and jerk.

**[23:35]** Like we're going to kill it. Like this is, this is, you're doing your best bud, but it's,

**[23:39]** it's not it yet. So no, no, we don't, we don't use AI to write our programming and,

**[23:46]** and are not going to, but, uh, I don't even remember how that conversation came about,

**[23:50]** but keeping, uh, yeah, continuing to write the affiliate program is, is important and mostly

**[23:56]** not lessly because other people do it, but mostly because the gym, the members over here at Miss

**[24:00]** Fitch in Portland do it. So, and we, that's our baby. So, the goal is to get the business side of

**[24:07]** things and everything else to the same level as the programming and the coaching.

**[24:11]** Exactly. Yep. So, I am moving, so today's Tuesday, this podcast will drop today, I am moving to Grand

**[24:20]** Junction, Colorado in two days. I am broadcasting from the Dreamatorium. I'm sad to leave the

**[24:28]** Dreamatorium. I busted Bobby Orr out here. I would show you guys more, but everything's

**[24:33]** close to gone at this point. This green chair that I'm sitting in is the only piece of furniture

**[24:38]** down left down here. And yeah, as a lot of you know, I went to college in Colorado. I

**[24:45]** to CSU and Fort Collins. Bunch of my best friends live in Grand Junction, which is the

**[24:51]** western side of the state over by Utah. And I hop in my car on Thursday with my Frenchie

**[24:59]** for a 38-hour, 2500-mile drive. My life has been...

**[25:04]** Yeah.

**[25:04]** ...actic.

**[25:06]** I told you guys on Instagram, you know what's funny? Side tangent. If I talk about Starbucks

**[25:11]** being bad, golf being stupid, or pop country music being trash. That is the most engagement

**[25:18]** I get on social media, the amount of DMs that I get. And they're just polarizing topics.

**[25:23]** And the funny thing is, is you can't like, it should be obvious that I'm trolling. I'm

**[25:27]** not really trolling about Starbucks. Starbucks is gross. Like, that's just a fact.

**[25:31]** It's terrible.

**[25:32]** It's so disgusting.

**[25:33]** So bad.

**[25:34]** And if you put a bunch of junk in it, if you put a bunch of junk in it, that's why they

**[25:40]** They make it gross.

**[25:41]** They make it gross because you guys put so much stuff in it that they want it to be so

**[25:46]** you can still taste coffee.

**[25:48]** That's where the quadruple dark roast trash came from.

**[25:52]** Also, the amount of beans that they use for one cup is crazy.

**[25:58]** There is a lot of caffeine in a cup of Starbucks.

**[26:00]** Like a lot, a lot, a lot.

**[26:01]** So I get it.

**[26:02]** I understand the delivery vehicle, what you guys are up to, but I just find it funny that

**[26:06]** if I troll golf, country music, or Starbucks. I either get like a hell yeah man or like

**[26:11]** are you kidding me? Starbucks is the best. Is it? Anyways, so I am driving across the

**[26:18]** country, hectic life. I'm kind of excited for day one. I don't know that I'll be excited

**[26:22]** the whole time. I've told people I did that drive a lot when I was in college and from

**[26:27]** Western Pennsylvania to Colorado is corn, soy, and wheat. That's it. That's all it is.

**[26:34]** you're just driving past cramps the entire time.

**[26:37]** It's just you and...

**[26:38]** I don't know how pumped up that'd be.

**[26:39]** Just me and Hank, yeah.

**[26:40]** Just you and Hank?

**[26:41]** Yeah.

**[26:42]** Maya and Carter are staying for the closing of the house and I'm going to like get things

**[26:50]** set up a little bit.

**[26:53]** Did washer and dryer getting delivered.

**[26:55]** I'm gonna set up Carter's crib.

**[26:57]** Just the essentials, that whole deal.

**[26:59]** When we are building a house out there, I thought we would be moving into it now.

**[27:04]** be moving into it in 2036 probably is my guess. So we're going out to live in a rental, but

**[27:11]** then the next time, yeah. Yeah, so weird to say that. Next time you guys see me, I will

**[27:15]** be in my rental house. It's got a little like a pool house thing. Yeah, different time zone

**[27:21]** too. Yeah. Two hours.

**[27:22]** I have a question for you. I don't know that I've ever asked. I kind of like, I just generally

**[27:28]** feel like I know the answer to this, but people have asked me, why is Drew moving to Colorado?

**[27:33]** Yeah. There's a bunch of reasons, but I am a like really big picture, macro view. I'm

**[27:41]** a big believer in like chapters of life. I think people get into a mode of whatever they're

**[27:46]** doing could be geographical location, could be the school that they go to, could be personal

**[27:52]** relationships, could be romantic relationships, could be your job, all of these different

**[27:56]** things. And I don't think people reassess whether they're doing what they want to do

**[28:02]** or they're living where they want to live, or they're experiencing the like, you know,

**[28:07]** I have the, you know, if you're watching on YouTube, I've got the skull here, the Memento

**[28:11]** Mori tattoo, like, remember, we must die. And I was not like that when I was younger.

**[28:16]** I did that concept made no sense to my brain. Like, everything was like, like, safe. I went

**[28:23]** to my, the first school that I went to was an hour and a half away from home. And I left

**[28:28]** the school within one semester and was right back in Scarborough, Maine. But eventually

**[28:33]** realizing that all of the things that I was doing were not what I wanted to be doing.

**[28:38]** And at this point, I had one degree and had been to three or four or five colleges at

**[28:44]** that point. And I printed off the brochure for the construction management program at

**[28:51]** Purdue versus Washington, Sacramento State, and Colorado State. I printed them off and

**[28:56]** I walked into my dad's office who I worked for and I set them face down on his desk and

**[29:01]** then ran out of the office.

**[29:02]** Kind of like when you send a risky text and you close your phone because you don't dare

**[29:07]** to like, you know, you like pace around that kind of thing.

**[29:11]** That makes it better.

**[29:12]** He was so happy that I was like going to leave and like do my own thing.

**[29:18]** He's always been like super, super supportive of what I do.

**[29:23]** But it's just one of those things, like such a huge life decision.

**[29:26]** And like he got on a plane with me and we went and visited all the places and did the

**[29:31]** whole thing.

**[29:32]** And, you know, he sat in and met with the like construction management school deans

**[29:37]** with me and the whole deal.

**[29:40]** But moving to Colorado and doing that and, you know, reinventing myself as a person and

**[29:46]** all this different stuff was like such a milestone in my life.

**[29:49]** Like such a huge thing.
