---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376"
published: 2025-11-18
episode_number: "376"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:52"
chunk_end: "39:43"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376 - Chunk 4

Episode: [[../episode|Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376]]

## Transcript

**[29:52]** And I came back home in 2010 and was a project manager for him and his construction company

**[30:00]** and simultaneously opened CrossFitMF in the garage of my house.

**[30:05]** And that was like a kind of like a hobby sort of thing at that point.

**[30:09]** It was like I want to compete and like it's so like I didn't feel like the affiliates

**[30:15]** that were around were really my cup of tea in a lot of ways.

**[30:19]** And it was like, I want to do my own thing.

**[30:21]** I want to have my like, I want to get, I want to have the t-shirts that the other gyms have.

**[30:25]** I want to be able to design those myself and make it like a sports team vibe with the colors

**[30:30]** and the whole deal.

**[30:31]** And obviously, this has been like a huge chapter of my life.

**[30:35]** Like being 39 years old and owning a business for 15 years, it's like crazy to think about.

**[30:41]** Especially considering like, as a male, you're one of the dumber creatures on earth until

**[30:48]** like mid to late 20s.

**[30:49]** So you could say I've only owned Mr. Jim Borland in my life, closer to with my prefrontal

**[30:56]** cortex 100% of my life.

**[31:01]** So I just believe in that concept of reevaluating where you're at and like this one is a more

**[31:08]** peaceful decision for me because I don't want to leave Maine because I don't like Maine.

**[31:14]** I want to leave Maine to experience something else.

**[31:17]** I want to leave Maine to raise my son, like, tell your rides an hour this way and veils

**[31:22]** this way and can take him up to see the Grand Tetons and I can take, you know, Moab is really

**[31:28]** close and Zion and like, I just, I had a really transformative experience in college where

**[31:37]** my friend was coming out for a ski trip and he canceled last minute and I did a solo camping

**[31:42]** trip for a week for spring break.

**[31:44]** And I went from Colorado to New Mexico to Arizona to Utah, and then actually stopped

**[31:49]** in Grand Junction.

**[31:50]** And I'm just like drawn to those vast wide open spaces.

**[31:55]** And I've looked it up online and it is actually a thing.

**[31:58]** It's like a psychological phenomenon.

**[32:00]** People feel different in spaces like that.

**[32:02]** And we've always been surrounded by trees.

**[32:05]** My roommate came home one summer with me and worked for my dad.

**[32:09]** And he was like, what's going on with the trees?

**[32:12]** You can't.

**[32:13]** Like we were driving through Scarborough and we were driving from like that strip from like

**[32:17]** eight corners to the high school.

**[32:20]** And it's just, it's so dense, but that's what I didn't, like I didn't even know he's talking

**[32:24]** about.

**[32:25]** Yeah, yeah.

**[32:26]** Like everything is trees.

**[32:27]** You can't see anything else.

**[32:28]** Sure.

**[32:29]** When you're driving around, obviously, unless you're on the coast.

**[32:32]** And I did, like I think that probably adds to it, but there's just something about like

**[32:36]** when I went out to visit, we went to Rocky Mountain National Park, which is just absolutely

**[32:42]** bonkers.

**[32:43]** You can drive up to the top of a 12,000 foot mountain

**[32:47]** and kind of look out over the Rockies.

**[32:48]** And it was just like, I got a pass

**[32:52]** to Rocky Mountain National Park my first year at CSU.

**[32:55]** And I would drive an hour and eat lunch on top of a mountain

**[33:00]** and then drive home, like, weekly.

**[33:03]** I did it all the fucking time.

**[33:05]** My mind was just blown by the way that it looked

**[33:08]** and all of that.

**[33:09]** It was just so different than how I grew up.

**[33:12]** So I'm definitely drawn to that.

**[33:14]** Like I said, I've got friends out there.

**[33:16]** They've got kids that are similar age to Carter.

**[33:20]** We're gonna move into like our houses being built in like a traditional neighborhood,

**[33:24]** which is gonna be really different for me.

**[33:26]** I kind of live in the woods now.

**[33:27]** I kind of like my space.

**[33:29]** Yeah.

**[33:30]** Because growing up.

**[33:31]** But him growing up.

**[33:32]** Yeah, him growing up, you know, riding bikes and playing street hockey and that whole deal.

**[33:36]** That's obviously a pretty easy trade.

**[33:37]** One funny story.

**[33:38]** I don't think I've told this.

**[33:40]** I don't think I've told this on the podcast, correct me if I'm wrong Hunter, the story

**[33:43]** about my architect.

**[33:44]** I think I just told you guys.

**[33:45]** You might have actually, but go on.

**[33:46]** Yeah, it's a good one anyway.

**[33:48]** I can't remember if it was on the podcast or not.

**[33:50]** So we looked for houses out there for a while, couldn't find anything that we liked.

**[33:55]** Houses are very different out there than they are in New England.

**[33:58]** Like aesthetically, the style, the vibe, the no basements, the like huge, like single floor

**[34:04]** open space concept where you don't really know whether you have a kitchen or a living

**[34:10]** room or a TV room, that kind of deal. But we went to one house that we liked that we

**[34:15]** didn't end up buying and it was being built by the guy who's building our house now. So

**[34:20]** once we found some land and started working with him, they asked us what we wanted. One

**[34:25]** thing that I loved about the houses out there is they all have RV spaces. So apparently

**[34:30]** everyone out there has an RV or a camper van or whatever, I guess it makes sense with all

**[34:34]** the stuff that you can go to. But for resale value, you have to have a third bay in your

**[34:39]** garage that has really high ceilings, basically, a little bit bigger. Of course, I walked into

**[34:44]** all those and I was like, dude, these guys have the best garage gyms and they don't even

**[34:48]** know it. No one is using their garage gyms.

**[34:53]** So very traditional. They're like, all right, Colorado style, you want a three-car garage

**[34:57]** with the RV bay. And I just mentioned, hey, this is what I do for work and I'd like to

**[35:01]** build an office and gym inside of the third bay of the garage.

**[35:06]** So the architect hand draws his first set of plans.

**[35:10]** He sends those over and he has removed the third bay from the garage and put it on the

**[35:16]** other side of the house.

**[35:17]** So it's like two car garage on one side, one car garage on the other side with two driveways.

**[35:21]** And I'm like, oh, that's unique.

**[35:22]** I mean, the design looks really cool.

**[35:24]** We were going for mid-centering modern.

**[35:26]** It was what we wanted.

**[35:27]** And then I click through and it says like,

**[35:33]** rig, handstand walk lane,

**[35:36]** lunge lane,

**[35:36]** on a tub, rings,

**[35:39]** climbing rope, all this stuff.

**[35:40]** And I was like, wow, this guy,

**[35:43]** like what a salesman, right?

**[35:45]** Guy gets it.

**[35:46]** This guy gets it.

**[35:47]** What a salesman.

**[35:48]** Like he looked up who I am.

**[35:49]** He went deep on CrossFit.

**[35:51]** Like this is crazy.

**[35:52]** We, as you guys know, listeners know,

**[35:54]** we program the purple mountain throw down

**[35:55]** in Colorado Springs every year.

**[35:57]** So I did a series of posts on Instagram where I would take the workout and post it so you

**[36:01]** guys could see the workouts that we did and try them out with the winning times because

**[36:06]** that's always fun for you guys to have something to chase.

**[36:08]** And I always tagged the people who won the event and I was like, okay, Luke Kiebel wins

**[36:14]** handstand pushup event.

**[36:15]** And I'm like, my name's familiar.

**[36:16]** What do I know that is?

**[36:18]** I'm not good with names anyways.

**[36:21]** I connect people a lot.

**[36:23]** There are a lot of people who are actually three separate people that I think are one

**[36:26]** person. I get very confused. And I go and I find his Instagram and I'm like, why do

**[36:32]** I know this person? Who is this? And then I click on the link and it's Desert Fox Homes,

**[36:39]** Desert Fox Architect, whatever. And I'm like, dude. So my architect is a extremely fit crossfitter

**[36:46]** who is on the podium every year at Purple Mountain Throwdown.

**[36:51]** And you program?

**[36:52]** I knew Misfit athletics, knew who I was, was basically just like,

**[36:55]** yeah, I mean, I didn't want to be weird,

**[36:57]** but I did build you the garage gym of my dreams.

**[37:00]** I was like, hell yeah.

**[37:01]** What a fucking guy.

**[37:02]** Nice.

**[37:03]** I didn't know what I got.

**[37:03]** Because Maya did not believe me.

**[37:05]** She was like, did you have a s-

**[37:07]** because we always met with them together.

**[37:08]** She was like, did you email them or tell them

**[37:10]** that they needed to build you this crazy gym?

**[37:12]** And I was like, I did not say a word.

**[37:14]** I didn't say anything, because the actual builder-

**[37:17]** She's fucking pissed.

**[37:18]** He went behind my back, like, god damn it.

**[37:21]** And she would always say, like, throughout the process, like, when you're building a

**[37:25]** house, they like to come in way over budget and be like, hey, you want to pay this much

**[37:29]** instead?

**[37:30]** And I'm like, no.

**[37:31]** And she's like, well, if, you know, if we got to cut down on the gym or whatever, it's

**[37:36]** like not a big deal.

**[37:37]** I'm just like, listen, I'm positioning it as...

**[37:39]** So here's the thing.

**[37:40]** I hated working from home during COVID.

**[37:43]** It was like fun for a week or two.

**[37:45]** Like we're all too stressed.

**[37:47]** You get a little stress relief.

**[37:48]** It's fantastic.

**[37:49]** And then I was losing my mind.

**[37:51]** So I'm scared of working from home indefinitely. At the rental, I get to walk 10 feet to my

**[37:56]** job into the backyard. I'm hoping that that separate space allows me to figure out whether

**[38:02]** I can handle it, but I'm positioning it as, hey, it's going to cost between 12 and 50

**[38:08]** grand a year for me to rent an office space. What if we're saving that much money?

**[38:14]** How much to go to a gym? Exactly.

**[38:16]** I'll still probably, I don't know if we'll figure out a barter system or something, but

**[38:20]** I will still, I gotta be a member at a CrossFit gym.

**[38:24]** I have to.

**[38:25]** Like, I really do.

**[38:26]** I might get a couple listeners to solicit you.

**[38:27]** Yeah, there's two, I've been told there are two really solid CrossFit gyms.

**[38:32]** CrossFit Junction I think it's called and maybe Vex.

**[38:36]** I'm gonna check both of those out.

**[38:37]** If you guys have other recommendations, please let me know.

**[38:40]** I'll go check those out as well.

**[38:42]** I just like, it feels weird to move to a city that has whatever, six CrossFit gyms and not

**[38:48]** be like, hey guys.

**[38:49]** I know a thing or two about the old 2115 Nines, if you want some help or whatever, like,

**[38:55]** I don't know, it just feels weird to like go there and like stay in my house.

**[38:59]** So I'll definitely find a way to do that.

**[39:00]** So I don't know that I answered your question or maybe I gave you five answers, but I wanted

**[39:05]** to go back to Colorado.

**[39:07]** I wanted to move to a place where I knew people had kids similar age to Carter.

**[39:13]** I wanted to go all in on Misfit Athletics, that kind of thing.

**[39:17]** Essentially the short version that I gave to people, I knew you'd been out there and

**[39:23]** I figured there was also an element of like, well, Carter hasn't started school yet and

**[39:27]** it's a hell of a lot easier to start him at a new place than move him a year or two into

**[39:33]** school even if he's pretty young.

**[39:35]** So we can do, we've told so many variations of these stories, but we can do a quick memory
