---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376"
published: 2025-11-18
episode_number: "376"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:43"
chunk_end: "59:40"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376 - Chunk 6

Episode: [[../episode|Breaking News: Full life chat episode. Hunter is an affiliate owner & Drew is moving!  - E.376]]

## Transcript

**[49:43]** And then a couple other like beacon showed up there

**[49:46]** and CrossFit MF was not particularly close,

**[49:50]** but I don't remember ever going to another gym.

**[49:53]** Like I didn't like have a list

**[49:54]** and like poke around the other gyms.

**[49:56]** MF just happened to be the first one that I showed up at.

**[49:59]** And my first legitimate memory of CrossFit MF was,

**[50:02]** one, I was sitting in the car

**[50:03]** because I think it wasn't open yet.

**[50:06]** And Jack Gavush is the one who pulls up, opens up the gym.

**[50:10]** And I'm like, hey man, here's the deal,

**[50:12]** trying to coach here, what can I do?

**[50:14]** And he was like, well, he was not, he was just a coach.

**[50:17]** So he was like, well, Seth or Drew will be back here soon.

**[50:20]** Like you can talk to them if you want to work out, you can.

**[50:22]** And so I start doing, I still remember kind of the workout.

**[50:26]** It was like one up to 10 and then down to one

**[50:29]** of like V ups, tire flips and like squat snatches

**[50:34]** or something, it was some weird,

**[50:36]** it was like traditional CrossFit Hunter now

**[50:38]** would definitely have kicked first time

**[50:41]** at CrossFit MF Hunter in the deck

**[50:44]** and punched him in the head.

**[50:45]** Wait, so we programmed that or you?

**[50:47]** No, no, no, no, I was, no, you guys programming was trash.

**[50:51]** Mine was superior.

**[50:53]** Okay.

**[50:54]** No, I know that, yeah, that story's common.

**[50:56]** I'm used to that.

**[50:57]** I was like, God, really?

**[50:59]** Must've been a weird day.

**[51:00]** And so, yeah, I just like explain kind of the situation,

**[51:04]** ended up doing, went to my officer candidate school,

**[51:07]** came back and spent the rest of the summer

**[51:10]** coaching combination of beginners classes

**[51:13]** and shadowing you guys.

**[51:15]** Yeah, that was kind of the, that was kind of it.

**[51:17]** And then after I graduated college,

**[51:20]** and kind of like one of those weird,

**[51:23]** probably as fate would have it sort of things,

**[51:25]** especially looking back now, if I had,

**[51:28]** If things had gone to plan, which was like you graduate from college as an officer in

**[51:33]** the military, and then shortly after you go onto active duty and you start training, you

**[51:38]** start your, like there are multiple schools that you need to go to, because of the timing

**[51:43]** of this, so like a little historical lesson, it was 2013, drawdown from Afghanistan and

**[51:49]** Iraq was really kind of starting to ramp up.

**[51:53]** And therefore, like the second and third order effect is, hey, we need to slow down the trickle

**[51:58]** of officers and just general military personnel because we don't like, we're drawing down

**[52:05]** out of a war zone. We don't need as many people as we did before. And that created like a

**[52:09]** one year backlog where I didn't have a job. I'm not getting paid by the military because

**[52:15]** I'm not on active duty. I need to make money and I need to do something in this weird post-graduation

**[52:21]** pre-military limbo. I interviewed for a couple engineering jobs, but nobody's going to hire

**[52:27]** a fresh engineer who's also gonna quit in 10 months.

**[52:30]** So it was coach at MF.

**[52:34]** And that was kind of also right around the time

**[52:36]** when Misfit Athletics was kind of getting rolling.

**[52:39]** That's when misfittraining.com was both free

**[52:42]** and misfit training, RIP.

**[52:45]** Fuck you, Meryl.

**[52:46]** Clock you, Meryl.

**[52:47]** No, that wasn't Meryl.

**[52:48]** That was the woman who had the video game exercise thing.

**[52:52]** The M, misfit training?

**[52:53]** No, no, no, I'm talking about just the M itself, the logo.

**[52:56]** Yeah, the name Misfit Training was owned by a woman who created a exercise video that

**[53:05]** looked like a video game so that you could exercise and your baby could watch a fake

**[53:10]** video game happen on the same screen.

**[53:12]** And we got a cease and desist from them to stop that and then the logo was Meryl's shoes.

**[53:18]** Yeah, still.

**[53:20]** Clock you, Meryl.

**[53:21]** Yeah.

**[53:22]** And video game lady.

**[53:23]** She's still around?

**[53:24]** She was not around at the time that she tried to sue us.

**[53:27]** Our lawyer was like, I will crush this person.

**[53:29]** Yeah.

**[53:30]** Anyway, trained.

**[53:31]** I was also, and again, like as fate would have it, that was the only, that was the best

**[53:38]** and what ended up being the only opportunity for me to compete at a level that was higher

**[53:42]** than the open.

**[53:43]** So this was still competitive CrossFit Hunter, like cool timing of like the...

**[53:49]** Beat Ben Smith in the handstand walk.

**[53:50]** 2014 when the year beat Ben Smith in the handstand walk, come at me Ben. But yeah,

**[53:55]** we sent a whole bunch of athlete, misfit athletes to regionals, which was kind of the like coming

**[54:00]** out party for misfit training at the time, misfit athletics, where it was like, hey,

**[54:04]** there's a lot of purple on the competition floor in the stands and that sort of thing. And yeah,

**[54:09]** I think there was always a little, there was always the attachment to like, I definitely

**[54:14]** had the feeling of like, man, this is a pretty cool job. Like if I could do this for a living,

**[54:19]** And it's really, really tough to have gone through four years of military college to

**[54:25]** be gung-ho and ready to go and do the thing you signed up for.

**[54:30]** And 18-year-old Hunter, when he committed to a military contract, the Marine Corps helped

**[54:36]** pay for some of my college in exchange for active duty time.

**[54:41]** 2008, 2009 Hunter and 2008, 2009 Planet Earth is Fallujah 2, is Afghanistan 2010.

**[54:51]** It's like there's some bad guys that need-

**[54:53]** Still the wake of 9-11 even though it was-

**[54:55]** Wake of 9-11, that was really the event that honestly structured the lives of millennials

**[55:01]** and beyond.

**[55:02]** The world, the country was not the same after 9-11.

**[55:07]** And 17, 18 year old hunter, 19 year old hunter who's thinking about the military is like,

**[55:13]** well, if I'm going to do this, there's bad guys who need killing and I want to do it.

**[55:20]** No, not so much the mindset anymore in hindsight is 2020, probably for the better.

**[55:26]** There's a reason why they go for the late teens, early 20s.

**[55:30]** You know what I mean?

**[55:31]** Yeah, for sure.

**[55:32]** And I mean, we need those people for sure.

**[55:34]** Of course.

**[55:35]** a year of being separated from such a regimented, challenging lifestyle to do something that

**[55:43]** you really enjoy, but then having to go back and turn that back on was really difficult

**[55:49]** for me. And I think that resulted in always having an attachment to CrossFit and to wanting

**[55:56]** to like, hey, if I really am not enjoying my time in the military, I think I should,

**[56:02]** one reason or another go back to this thing that was just more interesting to me. And

**[56:08]** that's kind of what I did. I had to make some really, really, I don't want to get into specifics,

**[56:13]** but just really tough life challenges that were a result of taking the job that I did,

**[56:19]** which was to come work for Misfit Athletics. That was a really difficult time for me. But

**[56:25]** it was just kind of, that's kind of how I came back to the Portland, to the main area

**[56:29]** and kind of got into what I'm doing now.

**[56:32]** And yeah, doing that stuff has been great.

**[56:36]** And I think just over the last five, six years,

**[56:38]** blame it on just changes as in the prefrontal cortex

**[56:43]** or probably a combination of both,

**[56:45]** the way that CrossFit and the sport of CrossFit

**[56:48]** has kind of evolved.

**[56:51]** It's directed me much more clearly

**[56:53]** toward the affiliate side of things.

**[56:55]** And I told some members last night,

**[56:58]** I was like, you know, straight up like I love like the athletes who compete in CrossFit

**[57:04]** are like exceptional.

**[57:06]** The athletes that I coach are phenomenal.

**[57:08]** The people that I think I can most positively impact and ultimately change their lives exist

**[57:16]** within the four walls of the affiliate rather than, you know, competing in the 21-15-9s.

**[57:23]** So it just kind of made sense and like you and I chatted about this.

**[57:29]** There's also like an element of like, hey man, I need to be able, this thing either

**[57:34]** needs to, I'm about to be 35 years old.

**[57:37]** This thing is either going to help serve me personally for the rest of my, for at least

**[57:42]** another like long period of time or it's not.

**[57:46]** Right.

**[57:47]** Yep.

**[57:48]** And I even got to a point where I was like looking at other jobs like completely outside

**[57:53]** of CrossFit. And like, I don't even know if I've ever told you this, this will be fun

**[57:57]** for listeners because I mentioned it to some members, but I interviewed for an engineering

**[58:02]** job at one point thinking that like, this is like, as much as I love this, I'm not going

**[58:06]** to be able to make this like, essentially like a financial, like financially feasible

**[58:11]** for me and stuff like that without a serious change. And that, that was really the major

**[58:15]** impetus for like, hey, Drew, like you want to want to chat about this sort of thing.

**[58:22]** I had also not had very much interest in ownership before that.

**[58:27]** So that was probably maybe surprising to you at the time because I had shied away from

**[58:31]** that in all regards prior to, but when it became, when you told me you were going to,

**[58:37]** you know, you were moving.

**[58:39]** I mean, you had seen how muddy it can get when you're trying to figure out what the

**[58:44]** structure of something like that is and who gets what and who does what when it's split

**[58:49]** up into pieces.

**[58:50]** Yeah.

**[58:51]** of like, like I own Misfit Athletics, you own Misfit in Portland, I think is a very

**[58:56]** different thing.

**[58:58]** For sure.

**[58:59]** Then, then all that other stuff.

**[59:00]** And part of it literally is just financial.

**[59:02]** Like there used to be five owners of Misfit Athletics and they, we were never going to

**[59:08]** have a situation where everyone had a great paying full-time gig doing what we were doing.

**[59:15]** And maybe there were different ways to do certain things, but like that's what happens

**[59:19]** in a lot of these situations.

**[59:21]** It was like, hey, like, you gotta move on because I'm an adult.

**[59:25]** Well, a lot of it too was like, this actually seemed like at a time, everybody talks about

**[59:32]** the golden years of CrossFit being 2014 to 2018, you know, ish, maybe when they changed
