---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392"
published: 2026-03-12
episode_number: "392"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:57"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** What's up Misfits? It's Drew. If you are listening to this or watching this,

**[00:04]** this is the post-production version of the 26.3 live show, 26.2 recap, all of that good stuff.

**[00:12]** The live version is still available on our YouTube channel. If you want to go watch the full thing,

**[00:17]** you could try to sync it up with what was going on down at Wada Palooza. But your choice,

**[00:22]** which one to listen to. Without further ado, the live podcast.

**[00:30]** Good morning Misfits, you are tuning in to the 26.3 live open announcement, 26.2 open

**[00:54]** recap.

**[00:55]** We'll do a little housekeeping here first while we while we accumulate people. I will apologize if my

**[01:03]** Audio isn't as crispy as usual

**[01:06]** but the video and the connection will be better because I have a

**[01:11]** 150 foot ethernet cable running from my house through my backyard and out to my office

**[01:16]** So we're pushing like nine hundred. We're close to a gig

**[01:20]** So we're gonna be a lot better in that respect, but I ate up all my ports and I need something

**[01:25]** I need a 49th dongle to be able to get my microphone. So maybe next week

**[01:29]** We'll we'll make that happen as always shout out to Gorilla mine for sponsoring this episode and every episode

**[01:36]** Fit a gorilla mine comm forward slash miss fit or just go to Gorilla mind

**[01:41]** And use the codeword miss fit at checkout and you save money on the best supplements in the game

**[01:46]** the company that inspired me to start a supplement company and then inspired me

**[01:51]** to come back and beg them to sponsor the podcast over the course of a few months.

**[01:55]** You support them, you support us in the show, and you save a little bit of dough.

**[01:59]** So, GorillaMind.com forward slash Misfit or use the code word Misfit at checkout.

**[02:04]** We are four days away from our latest affiliate programming phase getting

**[02:10]** started. Rushmore gets started on Monday, March 16th, and you can get a two-week

**[02:14]** free trial by going to teamMisfit.com, click on the sign up now button and you can get

**[02:19]** a free trial through StreamFit, SugarWad or PushPress or you can email me directly, coach

**[02:25]** at Misfitathletics.com.

**[02:27]** I will send you the PDF version those two weeks so you can take a look at those.

**[02:32]** And if you want to hop on a call, just let me know.

**[02:34]** Same email address, we'll get on a call and talk through our affiliate program.

**[02:38]** Just a little teaser if you didn't listen to the episode, the Rushmore concept is based

**[02:42]** on doing a benchmark workout once a week every week for the seven weeks, which is a little

**[02:48]** bit of fun we'll put out there. I don't want to be too direct with the word fun once you

**[02:52]** see what the seven benchmarks are, but you guys get the idea.

**[02:54]** If you're looking for individual programs, you can get a free trial to any of those by

**[02:59]** going to the link in bio on our Instagram and clicking on the Fitter or Strivee links.

**[03:04]** That is our GPP program, all of our competitor programs, all that good stuff. Free trials

**[03:09]** are available there. You can also head to sharpentheaxedcode.com. There are a few pieces left

**[03:16]** of the Rainer Shine Collection as we get prepped to do the 2026 Athlete Collection jerseys,

**[03:23]** which is pretty cool. Yeah, Paige, show them your shirt. That's me a fridge sig. I love that.

**[03:31]** It's a little something to take the edge off. It's a little something to take the edge off.

**[03:34]** All right, we are going to start with the top 10 from 26.2 on the men's side and the

**[03:41]** women's side for Misfit athletes.

**[03:43]** I know that a lot of you want to know how to get on that leaderboard, but then also

**[03:49]** maybe disappear for the next week and don't get the instructions.

**[03:53]** So you have the instructions now for the wrap up show, which we're going to do two sets

**[03:59]** of prizes.

**[04:00]** We are going to do one based on the top 10 overall in the open, and then we're going

**[04:04]** to do one based on everybody that did 26.3. So it's going to be double prizes next week.

**[04:09]** So make sure that you get to the spreadsheet link that we put out, which is in the telegram.

**[04:14]** It's currently on an Instagram story. I'm happy to post it wherever you guys need it

**[04:18]** to be posted. I'll probably email it this week as well to get as many people involved

**[04:23]** as possible. So we will flip the order this week and we will shout out the top 10 misfit

**[04:30]** women on 26.2. Kenzie Riley squeaks out a narrow victory for first place once again. Kenzie Riley,

**[04:40]** Paige Simenza, Lindsay Hoffman, Elena Pomerisi, Kelly Clark, Emma Hagstrom, Adrian Winjes,

**[04:47]** Kaylin Mitchell, Ashley Drabicki, and Missy G. Shout out to Peyton Forsythe for jumping into

**[04:56]** a second place there. Paige, random number generator. What do we got? Let's see. 16.

**[05:05]** 16. Paige, how timely is this? Before the podcast starts, Paige makes sure that her remote athlete

**[05:14]** is on the leaderboard. We manually add Katie to have to the leaderboard. She hasn't won the prize.

**[05:22]** Katie, please reach out to me directly. You have my email address. You have a few different ways

**[05:28]** of getting in touch with me. What a buzzer beater that is. None of this is staged.

**[05:34]** So you get a free Sharpen the X gift card. Reach out to me. I don't think anyone reached out to me

**[05:40]** last week. So there are both people that won. I don't even remember Pete. Pete Naz won. And I

**[05:48]** I don't remember who won on the women's side, but you should reach out to me directly.

**[05:56]** If you want to get it.

**[05:59]** The gentlemen, top 10.

**[06:01]** Kyle Moline, Adam Salmoni, Tyler Cluver, Wyatt Mel, Anthony Greco, Shane Lloyd, Hunter

**[06:08]** Stewart, John Dohmic, Nicholas Cole Butler, and DJ, you're doing it to me again, DJ Machinsky.

**[06:17]** I'm just guessing that the Z's gotta be silent.

**[06:19]** I don't know what to do with it, DJ.

**[06:20]** You gotta tell me what to do with the Z.

**[06:23]** Or I'm gonna have to Google it.

**[06:24]** And then there is technically one based on the tiebreaker.

**[06:27]** So we'll shout out Nicholas Becker as well.

**[06:30]** All right, Paige, random number generator for the gentlemen.

**[06:35]** Let's go 10.

**[06:38]** Lucky number 10, same guy.

**[06:39]** DJ Zmachinski, DJ.

**[06:43]** Please reach out to me, coach at missvetathletics.com.

**[06:46]** Admissive coach on Instagram.

**[06:48]** Yes, that is part of it.

**[06:50]** I will give you, if you tell me how to pronounce your name,

**[06:52]** I will increase the amount of the gift card.

**[06:54]** So shout out to DJ both for being in the top 10

**[06:58]** and for making it so that I can't,

**[07:00]** I don't know what to do with the Z and for your gift card.

**[07:03]** Congratulations on all of those things.

**[07:05]** All right, Paige, 26.2,

**[07:08]** what are your thoughts from the athlete perspective?

**[07:11]** Listen, if you're not conditioned with your pulling,

**[07:13]** you're gonna pay for it in that workout.

**[07:16]** Yeah.

**[07:17]** Yeah, I mean, it was a combination

**[07:19]** of like gas and muscle endurance.

**[07:21]** So, you know, obviously for some,

**[07:23]** it's gonna be straight muscle endurance

**[07:25]** being on the pull-up bar that much,

**[07:27]** but if you're able to move fast,

**[07:29]** then you know, you're gonna feel it.

**[07:31]** But yeah, I'd say right now,

**[07:33]** like for me personally, not very conditioned,

**[07:35]** which I guess when I put it in perspective of like,

**[07:38]** this is me feeling deconditioned on pulling,

**[07:41]** that's not a bad thing with where I'm sitting.

**[07:43]** So kind of a cool perspective to look at it from, but yeah, I mean,

**[07:47]** where did your midline go and where did your group go?

**[07:49]** Pretty, pretty toasty.

**[07:51]** We talked about it on the affiliate podcast.

**[07:54]** Um, but one of the, one of the fun things with classic CrossFit is you can

**[08:01]** run interference in multiple different ways.

**[08:05]** And one of the ways is putting sneaky work capacity early.

**[08:09]** So while the five to seven minutes, roughly for a lot of people, maybe five to eight minutes for a general population that it took for you to get through into your tiebreak time.

**[08:22]** Not, I mean, not terrible, right? Like, even if you pushed it, not necessarily terrible. But then you go do the math on what the work is and that has always been the magic that was the magic of Fran, you know, we've got 45 reps each.

**[08:37]** It looks pretty simple on paper and there's just an alchemy to like it's a pretty long range of motion to go with the thruster

**[08:44]** You're moving your body, you know a longer range of motion with the pulling

**[08:49]** especially with kipping being involved and

**[08:51]** What that does to you from like a metabolic standpoint is very sneaky

**[08:56]** So you put all of that work in there and yes, there is pulling there is the overhead with the dumbbell

**[09:01]** There's all that but there's also all of the work that gets jammed into that period of time

**[09:05]** before you're asked to do the 20 muscle ups. One thing that confused me

**[09:10]** community-wide in terms of content that was put out is people who are really

**[09:15]** good at muscle ups couldn't believe why someone else was like failing their

**[09:21]** final one. A bad strategy is a bad strategy whether you are starting your

**[09:27]** on-ramp class or the CrossFit Games winner who did the CrossFit Games winner

**[09:31]** did fail a muscle up.

**[09:33]** So it just cracks me up that there's a conversation about like, you should be better at these

**[09:38]** muscle ups.

**[09:39]** And it's like, well, maybe they shouldn't have done 12 to open, right?

**[09:42]** You're pushing your capacity past a point.

**[09:45]** Your athlete IQ isn't sending you the correct signals to come down a rep or two sooner.

**[09:53]** And I totally understand, like we saw some of the best athletes in the world on the men's
