---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392"
published: 2026-03-12
episode_number: "392"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:57"
chunk_end: "19:56"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392 - Chunk 2

Episode: [Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[09:57]** side and the women's side posting about how rough their muscle ups were, the risk profile

**[10:03]** is very low.

**[10:04]** Why not go for it?

**[10:07]** You can redo if you're really that worried about it.

**[10:10]** Most of them aren't going to redo.

**[10:12]** It's like, well, this is where I can find out.

**[10:15]** This is where I can develop my athlete IQ.

**[10:18]** I thought that narrative was just kind of funny.

**[10:20]** It's like, well, why aren't you better at this movement?

**[10:23]** It's like, well, you have to be better at it and you have to be smart.

**[10:26]** How many people on earth do that workout unbroken?

**[10:29]** It's like, I don't know, five?

**[10:30]** Like I don't know the answer to it.

**[10:33]** But I just kind of, it cracked me up to see that much content out there about like, I

**[10:38]** can't believe these people are failing.

**[10:40]** And it's like, if they were failing and they were doing like sets of three, I would get

**[10:43]** it.

**[10:44]** But like so many high level games athletes opened with large sets and didn't take into

**[10:50]** account the amount of work that they had done.

**[10:51]** And then they failed.

**[10:52]** Right.

**[10:53]** like they're there to show us what is possible, right?

**[10:57]** So they're gonna push the envelope.

**[10:59]** Like in, especially on the guy's side,

**[11:02]** like they are so competitive with each other.

**[11:04]** Like Jason Hopper is going to fight

**[11:06]** for every single rep that he could get.

**[11:08]** Like that's the competitive nature of him.

**[11:12]** Like I don't, I didn't know that narrative

**[11:13]** was being passed around.

**[11:14]** That's kind of funny.

**[11:15]** Cause I'm like, who's this coming from?

**[11:17]** Let's go see you do muscle ups.

**[11:19]** I saw a couple of videos.

**[11:20]** The one that was funny was it was Hiller's video

**[11:23]** and he is actually absurdly good at pulling gymnastics.

**[11:26]** And honestly, well, I shouldn't say this

**[11:29]** because I am a fan of his, I'm a fan of,

**[11:33]** well, he calls himself Hitlerfit2.0.

**[11:36]** I am a fan of the newer version of his content.

**[11:40]** Some of his old stuff, I just, I don't,

**[11:42]** like it's not really my thing.

**[11:44]** And it seems like he's progressed maybe a little bit

**[11:47]** with his content.

**[11:48]** He's definitely evolved with his content.

**[11:50]** But like, if I was going to pull a technique video to use,

**[11:55]** to be able to show all of the elements I tried to show

**[11:58]** with a pencil, like in a pen cap last week,

**[12:01]** I would probably use his.

**[12:03]** They're, they are very technically sound.

**[12:07]** Yeah.

**[12:08]** But you have to have, there's probably five or 600 people

**[12:13]** on the men's and women's side

**[12:14]** that have the physical capabilities to move that way.

**[12:18]** without that big heave being part of it.

**[12:20]** So, but yeah, that was one where it was like, okay,

**[12:23]** well that would be like me,

**[12:25]** that would be like me being like,

**[12:27]** well, why can't you do the after the step ups?

**[12:29]** You can't do like 50 handstand pushups in a row

**[12:31]** or whatever that number was like that kind of thing.

**[12:33]** It's not necessarily the most fair thing to put out there,

**[12:37]** but just a narrative that I thought was kind of funny.

**[12:39]** And I'm intrigued because to have this workout

**[12:44]** not be leaked is very challenging with the amount of moving parts that they

**[12:49]** have so there's rumors on a leak but there's multiple rumors it's like I

**[12:55]** maybe they're maybe they're finally buying into that and putting fake ones

**[13:01]** out intentionally I don't know 51 a and B and I've heard 20.1 whoo what's 20.1

**[13:08]** the ground overhead burpee.

**[13:11]** Nasty.

**[13:12]** Yeah.

**[13:13]** Okay.

**[13:14]** That was a really nasty word.

**[13:14]** I mean, people are starting to put out fake videos

**[13:17]** for Hiller.

**[13:18]** Like if you saw like he put,

**[13:20]** like blocked out his clock and stuff like that.

**[13:23]** So they could be.

**[13:25]** Yeah.

**[13:26]** Yeah.

**[13:27]** About time.

**[13:28]** Cause it's like, I'm sick of people knowing.

**[13:31]** It's annoying that they know.

**[13:32]** Not that it really makes a difference, but.

**[13:33]** Yeah.

**[13:35]** There were, there are times when it makes a huge difference.

**[13:38]** The chat thing at the games was the most egregious one to me.

**[13:43]** Yeah.

**[13:44]** Literally it gets released and you're like,

**[13:46]** okay, these are the people in that video.

**[13:48]** And then being at the games and listening to the people

**[13:52]** that were in the lead,

**[13:53]** who was literally the names of the people

**[13:55]** who had practiced that style.

**[13:57]** Yeah.

**[13:58]** Just yeah.

**[13:59]** Oh, you mean like up on the box,

**[14:01]** the way they float, got it.

**[14:03]** Okay.

**[14:03]** Yeah.

**[14:04]** Yeah.

**[14:05]** Cause everyone was like,

**[14:06]** there's got to be some kind of nuance to this.

**[14:07]** Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm looking at the chat. People are, people are arguing here. It will

**[14:13]** be interesting not to have rowing. Yeah, that is. If that's, if that's really the case.

**[14:17]** Definitely see it in quarterfinals. That is true. And don't you worry, there's

**[14:21]** plenty. Well, everybody knows already we're in week four, there's plenty of rowing. And

**[14:26]** who also.

**[14:27]** My finals online people. To the, to the misfits following our quarterfinals prep right now,

**[14:32]** I told you that you would be able to tell that the open is over.

**[14:36]** You will be able to tell that the open is over.

**[14:39]** Just look at what's programmed for Saturday.

**[14:43]** The other rumor deduction based on water, please.

**[14:45]** A programming setup is 22.2 deadlift burpee.

**[14:49]** Yeah.

**[14:49]** That was a doozy.

**[14:50]** I've seen that good.

**[14:50]** That was a doozy of a workout.

**[14:54]** All quick ones though.

**[14:55]** Non pullers, non pullers didn't like that workout.

**[14:59]** They found that out pretty quickly.

**[15:01]** There's just enough hinging to make those deadlifts not want to be as hingy.

**[15:06]** And then when you start squatting the bar up from the floor, that's when you start

**[15:09]** to have some real problems with your deadlifts.

**[15:11]** Yeah.

**[15:12]** I mean, we've done so much deadlift conditioning prior to quarterfinals prep.

**[15:17]** No rowing please, pukey face.

**[15:19]** Same.

**[15:20]** When's the last time they didn't?

**[15:21]** No rowing in 21 or 22.

**[15:23]** I wouldn't think it was in a row.

**[15:25]** I would say the chipper is fairly indicative of what I'm talking about.

**[15:29]** The chipper was intentionally like,

**[15:33]** I'll read the chipper to the people.

**[15:35]** Kyle, just do the volume, do the map on that chipper.

**[15:38]** All right, what is the chipper?

**[15:39]** The chipper is a 2K bike, 100 wall balls,

**[15:44]** 200 foot double dumbbell overhead walking lunge,

**[15:46]** 200 double unders, 50 wall balls,

**[15:48]** 50 double dumbbell hang power cleans.

**[15:51]** Yeah, definitely the chipper.

**[15:53]** The Sprintervall, I think the bar muscle up version

**[15:56]** might've been a little bit harder,

**[15:59]** But I flipped the bar muscle ups in the ring muscle ups this week based on the open workout.

**[16:05]** Yeah, there is a little Karen in there, huh?

**[16:07]** You guys should be well-informed on wall balls at this point.

**[16:10]** Kyle, that's a gift for you on Monday though.

**[16:13]** I guess you train on Tuesdays.

**[16:15]** But that was a little of the deficit handstand push-ups.

**[16:19]** Or maybe it's a curse because that'd be too easy.

**[16:21]** That one looks fun.

**[16:22]** Yeah, that one does look fun.

**[16:25]** Even to me.

**[16:26]** Yeah, double dumbbell Kyle. Yeah, it's just a subtle little thing thrown in there. Well,

**[16:32]** there's no rowing. Monday's rowing is really, really a gift. That is a staple of competition

**[16:39]** prep. We have eighth gear row, seven by 90 seconds, three and a half minutes off at eighth

**[16:45]** gear.

**[16:46]** I hope like, obviously if handstand pushups is something that you really need to work

**[16:51]** gone like you know you hit that training piece but if somebody is doing like one training

**[16:56]** session right now I sure do hope that they do the 90 second row.

**[17:00]** Yeah.

**[17:01]** Yeah.

**[17:02]** Because even as much as I don't like it I choose it like I get McKenna to join me and

**[17:07]** we're in it for the 40 minutes that were there.

**[17:09]** We're in it for the long haul.

**[17:11]** I always at the gym I was a workout the middle of the day kind of person but if it was monostructural

**[17:20]** that I didn't want to do, I always went to the 330 class.

**[17:23]** It's just different.

**[17:24]** You're in that, you're in that circle of rowers or bikes or whatever.

**[17:28]** And at the very least you can commiserate.

**[17:31]** I can try to convince affiliate athletes to pace properly, which they won't,

**[17:34]** but it at least takes my mind off things while I'm going.

**[17:37]** Did you know or notice that you did the eighth gear of running,

**[17:43]** rowing or echo bike every final week of competition prep?

**[17:46]** Is that something that you noticed before we started programming together?

**[17:49]** Yeah, no only only until we talked about it. Did I realize and then I was like, ah, okay

**[17:55]** Like this this is that training piece

**[17:58]** It's like a Matt Fraser did the the 145 15, right? Yeah, it's like that

**[18:04]** Well the last eighth year Oh eighth year row. I was gonna say the last eighth year piece we did I think was echo bike

**[18:09]** wasn't it

**[18:11]** Probably like from a programming perspective. Yeah, I remember Peyton because she's good at at the echo bike and she was dude

**[18:19]** I am not a fan of looking at her scores at all. I do not like looking at her Echo Bike

**[18:25]** scores. Those are crazy. Yeah. No. So Hunter, when Hunter bought Hunter bought the gym from me

**[18:32]** in November and is a full time small business owner. So he's still doing the affiliate podcast

**[18:39]** with us, but he is not. He's not on the podcast. It's so funny. He like his, his grumpy little

**[18:46]** equips like the people that people definitely miss it miss those I don't

**[18:50]** think you're gonna get that much of that from Pedro he comes from the top row

**[18:54]** fairly regular basis he does he's doing the affiliate podcast with us yeah he

**[19:01]** does all the podcasts with us yeah and there's also like 300 episodes with him

**[19:07]** on there you go listen we got we got plenty plenty of content there oh watch

**[19:14]** Watch this.

**[19:15]** Hold on.

**[19:16]** Technology baby.

**[19:17]** Peyton does have that long, sleepy hair.

**[19:23]** She's actually, she's down at Wataplooza right now.

**[19:24]** They're doing team of three.

**[19:25]** She did a little primer day.

**[19:27]** Yeah.

**[19:28]** Did a little primer day.

**[19:29]** She's like, man, I feel good.

**[19:31]** Perfect.

**[19:32]** When do they start the teams?

**[19:33]** I have no idea.

**[19:34]** It's a good question.

**[19:36]** But they do.

**[19:37]** She's going to be able to like go do the open workout.

**[19:40]** Yeah.

**[19:41]** Yeah.

**[19:42]** So if I, can you, you can't hear this if I have it on.

**[19:44]** you. Okay. We got to get something short and nasty, right? I mean, that's what I hope. What was the...

**[19:49]** Short and dirty, real gassy. That's what we need to balance this out. Give the meatheads a chance,
