---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392"
published: 2026-03-12
episode_number: "392"
chunk_index: 3
chunk_start: "19:56"
chunk_end: "29:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392 - Chunk 3

Episode: [[../episode|Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392]]

## Transcript

**[19:56]** would you? Goodness. Short hand or heavy. Power clean handstand push-ups from

**[20:03]** 2015. 3-3, 6-3, 9-3, 12-6, 15-6. I think the barbell went up every time. One of the movements

**[20:12]** went up every time and the other movement went up every three rounds. Here we go. It sounds like

**[20:19]** if you're at Guadalupe, the two days to do the open workout at the venue is Friday and Sunday.

**[20:27]** I saw Tony sent me a message. He's down there watching. Hey, Queen.

**[20:33]** McKenna, you beat me on 26.2. I didn't do any dumbbell snatches. You got me by one rep.

**[20:40]** That's dumb.

**[20:42]** Danny, while I've got you here, if you could learn to use your hips in pulling gymnastics,

**[20:48]** you would be dangerous.

**[20:50]** I'm just putting that out there.

**[20:51]** You probably have heard it already.

**[20:53]** I haven't seen an open hip on a pull up or a muscle up yet.

**[20:58]** So I am happy to do free video review in gymnastics coaching if you reach out to me.

**[21:04]** We got to get those hips open.

**[21:05]** Take advantage.

**[21:06]** Crazy close downs.

**[21:07]** Hey.

**[21:08]** Yeah, she is a muscle-up queen

**[21:12]** Claudia those are fast lunges. She was right next to Victor Hoffer too

**[21:16]** I think when she did it at a good person to race in this one

**[21:19]** Yeah, well, I tell the guards six points. That's rude. She gonna win the games this year Lucy Campbell

**[21:25]** She could I think the only way Tia doesn't compete as if she stays pregnant having babies. She's not competing

**[21:32]** I don't think I know that's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah, that's the only way well

**[21:36]** That's the only way that she doesn't win, you mean?

**[21:38]** Yeah, if Tia is back in.

**[21:41]** Yo, Chad is my video better this week.

**[21:43]** That's what the live streamers say, I think.

**[21:45]** Sup, Chad?

**[21:46]** Always us, Chad.

**[21:46]** This is the second year I didn't go to Wataplooza,

**[21:49]** and I really do get FOMO.

**[21:51]** Most other competitions, they don't,

**[21:53]** obviously the games and semis, but it's such a vibe there.

**[21:57]** Yeah, last year was my first year in like a decade

**[22:00]** that I didn't go, and just not leaving Maine to go to Miami.

**[22:04]** That break?

**[22:05]** Yeah.

**[22:06]** huge part of it. And that definitely is the, that's the competition for me from like a

**[22:11]** community standpoint. Yeah, agreed. Yeah, Dallin just can't pull the Velner and try to come back

**[22:19]** from like a 30th 40th place finish to open. I feel like Dallin was like really on pace to

**[22:27]** win it this past year. But with World Fitness Project, all the training around it,

**[22:32]** it's been hard, like finding that balance is hard.

**[22:36]** With how close all of those athletes are together though, the programming matters so much.

**[22:41]** Yeah.

**[22:42]** The programming is and he's just not quite there on the monostructural like the other

**[22:46]** guys are. I think that's a huge part of it.

**[22:49]** I think it was 2023 with Gabe and we were at semi-finals and he's like figuring out

**[22:59]** who's gonna snatch heavy, who's not with that like snatch and then run and then run and

**[23:04]** snatch or vice versa. And he's like, Paige Powers, she's not gonna get over 185. Olivia

**[23:11]** Kurseter, she's not gonna go that heavy. And it was like,

**[23:14]** didn't Olivia do like 200 when she was a teen, like a teen athlete? His research is a little

**[23:20]** off there.

**[23:21]** I stay home for one semi final. Oh yeah.

**[23:27]** Amazing. So fun. Wow. Guys, you're gonna need a fridge sink after this one.

**[23:35]** 16 minutes of burpees, power cleans, and thrusters. That's no joke. That is no joke.

**[23:45]** Okay, so one thing that I think people will be happy about based on feedback

**[23:50]** last week, I'm gonna put the warm-up at the end of the sliders on Instagram.

**[23:55]** They did not five pages of warm up and activation and all that stuff to start.

**[24:01]** Although I know Instagram just serves you a random page or a random tile anyways.

**[24:05]** So when we're warming up for a workout like this, I'm going to tell all of my athletes

**[24:11]** to bump that sweat check from 12 to 15 minutes.

**[24:14]** He's just really, really one of the disadvantages of the athletes that we just watched is they

**[24:20]** didn't know what they were warming up for.

**[24:21]** Who knows when they warmed up.

**[24:23]** They were standing out there.

**[24:24]** They were then confused as to what the actual workout was and they did the workout under

**[24:29]** the sun.

**[24:30]** So a lot of disadvantages there, not knowing the exact feel of the workout, all that stuff.

**[24:35]** So part of what makes the open announcement so powerful is we get to reverse engineer

**[24:41]** a lot of our thoughts, get to sound smart because you just watched those people go through

**[24:45]** that.

**[24:46]** So I would bump the sweat check up to a full 15 minutes for most athletes and I would definitely

**[24:50]** make sure that I got the upper body involved.

**[24:53]** I would probably be personally be on the Echo Bike for the final five minutes of that, making

**[24:58]** sure that I'm really kind of getting into the, into the sweat and the flow of full body

**[25:03]** type workout.

**[25:04]** When we're talking about, oh, and definitely a primer for this one.

**[25:07]** This is one where because the movements themselves are going to make you feel like they looked

**[25:12]** after the first five minutes or so of this workout, it's really important to, it's really

**[25:17]** important to have a primer.

**[25:18]** So there'd be a primer in there as well.

**[25:20]** The general theme here of strategy in this workout is from a macro point of view, how

**[25:27]** little time can you spend doing absolutely nothing.

**[25:31]** Slow reps are better than no reps, as we say, and then the other side of it is break the

**[25:35]** workout before you're broken.

**[25:37]** Barbell movements need to be done in sets at a pace, at a fatigue level, both from a beats

**[25:44]** per minute heart rate to grip and hip flexors and quads, all of that, where you can stay

**[25:51]** moving continuously on your burpees.

**[25:54]** It's very rare to see athletes and that's one of the traps of a lateral burpee is that

**[26:00]** you can rip them off at a big clip and you don't really feel the ramifications until

**[26:05]** you are whatever, 60 deep.

**[26:10]** And then you've done all this other work as well and you have a ton of work to go.

**[26:13]** So the barbell needs to again be broken up in a way where you don't stand around as much.

**[26:20]** So we're talking about a lot more singles than they did with the barbell.

**[26:24]** I know that it's annoying.

**[26:26]** There are some tricks that you can kind of figure out on your own as you're warming up

**[26:30]** for how you drop the barbell being willy nilly about it and just chucking it from the front

**[26:34]** rack position and having it not balanced very well is going to be a problem.

**[26:39]** So that's, that's something to consider there.

**[26:41]** And then the style of plates that you have definitely matter.

**[26:44]** So if you, you know, the ones that you know that don't bounce as much or don't bend as

**[26:47]** much are definitely the ones that you want to be able to use, but it's going to be more

**[26:50]** singles for a lot of athletes.

**[26:53]** Bless the affiliate owners who are about to lose some plates.

**[26:56]** Some callers are about to pop out of some plates here.

**[26:59]** And with the thrusters again, like there is nothing wrong with three sets.

**[27:06]** There's nothing wrong with, you know, five, four, three.

**[27:09]** Yeah, because if you are dropping it and treating it like the single drop and reset, there's

**[27:16]** not going to be any issue there.

**[27:18]** And that's just going to give you some breathing room as you go to be able to do that.

**[27:23]** So really the issue here is they, for the most part, ended up in the place where you

**[27:30]** should be on the third section in the second section from like a metabolic standpoint.

**[27:35]** This workout will catch up to you no matter what.

**[27:38]** no, there's not really going to be any hiding here unless you magically have just like the

**[27:43]** stars align for your strategy to be the most perfect thing that it could be, which no offense

**[27:49]** to anybody. It's just not going to happen. That's the nuance of having our sport essentially change

**[27:54]** every single time that you do it. So the barbell needs to be carefully executed because other

**[28:03]** athletes are going to be able to figure out how to do that and they're going to stay moving on

**[28:06]** on their burpees.

**[28:07]** They're not gonna have as many issues there.

**[28:09]** Yeah, I think two things that really stick out to me,

**[28:12]** if you might start off doing a burpee,

**[28:15]** say every three seconds, okay, 12 takes you 36 seconds,

**[28:19]** and all of a sudden you fall off

**[28:21]** and you're at every six seconds,

**[28:23]** well, that took you from 36 seconds to a minute 12.

**[28:27]** You need to find that happy medium for yourself

**[28:29]** that you can just stay consistent

**[28:30]** and not have a wide range of around this pace

**[28:34]** and around this dot pace.

**[28:35]** And then the other thing, like you said, with the thrusters is like, you're better off dropping it than resting at the top and holding this position.

**[28:44]** And just that time under tension is just going to catch up so quickly in this workout.

**[28:48]** So, you know, being very intentional now of like, hit your lockout, bring that bar right back down, save those arms as much as you can.

**[28:55]** Yeah, for sure.

**[28:57]** For sure.

**[28:57]** So again, I mean, we could definitely cook up a silly strategy that gets us as many views as possible,

**[29:07]** but it would apply literally to like one subset of maybe we have 15 avatars to give this advice to.

**[29:14]** So again, we remain, you know, pulled back enough to see the full spectrum here.

**[29:20]** Still the same advice, still manage the barbell to a point where you continue to move there,

**[29:25]** but that means different things for different athletes. That means one set for certain athletes

**[29:31]** on the thrusters at certain points in the workout. It means two sets for most. It means three or four

**[29:37]** sets for a lot of athletes. If you really struggle with burpees, that is going to be an issue where

**[29:43]** oftentimes that athlete is a little bit better with the barbell. And then you accidentally put

**[29:49]** yourself into a place. I'm essentially talking about myself right now, but I know that there
