---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392"
published: 2026-03-12
episode_number: "392"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:53"
chunk_end: "39:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392 - Chunk 4

Episode: [Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:53]** are more out there that are like me, the barbell is just going to feel easy and you're going

**[29:58]** to overdo it there. It's like two or three times more challenging than you would think

**[30:03]** to back off enough to be able to go move yourself through the burpees. So that's something to

**[30:08]** really put out there. And again, it's nice to have, depending on who the athletes were,

**[30:16]** you know, some of the athletes are, you know, in the sport at the highest level, men's and

**[30:21]** women's side are a little bit bigger. And if we had watched them specifically, some

**[30:25]** of the smaller athletes, some of the ninjas might have still thought like, Oh, I'm just

**[30:29]** going to stop the gas pedal and get this thing done in 14 minutes. Then we saw Ariel do what

**[30:34]** she does.

**[30:35]** Burpee ninja. Yeah. Yeah. And have some issues there. So really be thoughtful about the way

**[30:40]** that you do that movement efficiency. So we talked while it was on live, but we'll go

**[30:46]** kind of movement by movement here. So our lateral burpee, we want to make sure that

**[30:52]** we are stepping up with the different a different leg each time. And the most

**[30:56]** efficient version of that is going to be stepping up with the outside leg so that

**[31:01]** when you bring bring the inside foot up we've got a little bit of a lean into

**[31:06]** that position before we jump over the bar. That is something that if you don't

**[31:10]** do it and you're the type who does the like bar facing burpee in a circle until

**[31:15]** you get dizzy, it's going to take you a minute, um, to figure that out.

**[31:18]** So that's something where we would add a little bit more practice to the warmup,

**[31:22]** but with having the thruster in there and having the hip involvement with that many

**[31:27]** burpees with burpees really dominating this workout, it's really important that

**[31:31]** you figure out how to do that within the workout.

**[31:34]** Not the worst thing in the world.

**[31:35]** If you do the inside leg the whole time, but if you can do the inside leg, you do

**[31:38]** the outside leg, it's just the same thing on opposite sides of the bar.

**[31:42]** So there shouldn't be any issues there and we're staying low.

**[31:44]** So we got good examples of athletes while they were still with us on planet earth,

**[31:49]** essentially not standing up any further where your head and shoulders would be above your hips

**[31:55]** as you're going over the bar. So that'd be one way to think about it. And then as we are lowering

**[32:00]** ourselves, you've got to learn to actually like drop yourself down to the ground. You got to be

**[32:06]** able to sprawl into that position so that we don't have that negative each time. Because again,

**[32:12]** that's one thing where you didn't see this from the athletes but will be present in 90% of the

**[32:18]** CrossFit community. That negative each time will add up and will become an issue in conjunction

**[32:25]** with your front rack position in the front rack position and then definitely getting those final

**[32:30]** reps overhead as you're really gassed. Not a lot of people are going to get to do those final reps

**[32:37]** But a lot of people will get to do the first round with the thrusters there.

**[32:41]** A decent amount of athletes will be able to do that. And then it's just the same thing on the way

**[32:44]** up. And we want to reverse what that looks like as we're coming back up. So we want the hips to

**[32:49]** stay above the head and shoulders on the way up. We want it to be a hip closing movement instead

**[32:55]** of a press up movement in that position. And I made the comment about Danielle Brandon having

**[33:01]** the pressing capacity, something caught up with her in that workout.

**[33:07]** And that's just not an efficient burpee whether you like to press or not.

**[33:11]** The athletes that you see that are really burpee ninjas are the ones who stay low and

**[33:15]** use the fact that they sprawl and then close their hip to come down.

**[33:18]** Yeah.

**[33:19]** And if you are that athlete that has that kind of slow negative, it almost always means

**[33:24]** that you're pressing out of your burpee anyway.

**[33:26]** So like really, if you can learn to just get yourself, get your chest to the ground early,

**[33:31]** It's also going to help on the way up too.

**[33:34]** So take some time beforehand to practice it.

**[33:37]** Take videos of yourself so you can see, get a visual of it.

**[33:42]** But yeah.

**[33:43]** I don't think I've ever seen the worm negative and then someone magically close their hips

**[33:47]** to get them to the back up.

**[33:49]** That's just something that we don't see there.

**[33:51]** So yeah, that's the burpee.

**[33:53]** You have to find, that's the one, it's not a counterpoint, but it is something to consider.

**[33:58]** style of burpee that we are talking about is typically a bit more dynamic. So you have to find

**[34:04]** a way to move well within your burpee and be efficient but not be too fast. So it's the subtle

**[34:12]** things of when you step out over as you have your arms extended and you're lowering yourself down,

**[34:18]** you're taking a little bit of a beat because you're putting yourself essentially on like a hamster

**[34:23]** wheel that eventually you're going to have to jump off of. So again while you're warming up,

**[34:28]** we're thinking about a lot of things. But I can, I can tell you that when we're stuck with 100 plus

**[34:34]** burpees, when we're stuck on the row or in these workouts, having something to think about at each

**[34:40]** point in the movement is helpful to me anyways, it's helpful to my kind of inner narrative, right,

**[34:47]** as I'm going through. So I have this cadence, and I'm repeating and kind of going through this in my

**[34:53]** head of like, I'm going to sprawl.

**[34:57]** And then I am going to keep my head and my shoulders low while I use my hips to

**[35:02]** come back up, I'm going to step up with that outside foot.

**[35:06]** I'm going to bring the inside foot in and then hop over.

**[35:09]** And while I'm doing that and I'm working through those things, I'm really thinking

**[35:14]** about like, could I stay efficient and slow down a little bit?

**[35:18]** That's really what we're looking for.

**[35:19]** because it's when we are forced to slow down that we change our movement a ton

**[35:25]** and then it just gets really sloppy.

**[35:27]** Like a lot of things change, you're basically just in survival.

**[35:29]** Yeah, and like we had an athlete at camp that was doing burpee box jump overs

**[35:35]** and he was so methodical in his pace that he was like standing and waiting at the other side.

**[35:40]** We also don't want that either.

**[35:42]** No.

**[35:42]** Like you want to find that in between where you are steady down,

**[35:46]** study up and like that might it's gonna look different for everybody but like you know if

**[35:51]** you're gonna use a clock to your advantage like it's not to stand and wait at the other side so

**[35:55]** just keep that in mind too like again that's getting cute with it and we're not after that.

**[36:01]** No the cleans are the place where there's a lot of nuance from athlete to athlete.

**[36:08]** If you are either moving or you rest a lot if you're that kind of athlete it might be worth it

**[36:16]** for you to do small sets of touch and go early and then take an extra breath

**[36:22]** before your next set, then it will be to do singles if you don't think you can

**[36:26]** stay mentally on top of putting your hands right back on the bar. So I don't

**[36:31]** know how many athletes there are out there that are gonna listen to this that

**[36:34]** are like that, but again if you are if you're ever delivered by a coach or you

**[36:40]** know listening to something like this or reading one of the you know 100 strategy

**[36:45]** things that you can find on Instagram. If you ever find yourself doing someone else's strategy

**[36:50]** and then not able to cut down on the rest periods, that's when this, the like singles all the way

**[36:57]** through just probably isn't going to work for you. But I can see a lot of athletes in this workout

**[37:01]** benefiting from singles the entire time. Like the negative, you don't get any points for that

**[37:06]** negative. Like that's a huge part of it. It's not just that it's going to jack up your heart rate.

**[37:10]** it's that you're doing this other half of the movement that isn't necessary.

**[37:14]** And it doesn't require the kind of tension that say a deadlift does,

**[37:18]** where another rep is going to be more challenging.

**[37:22]** But you can get yourself into that good position there for sure.

**[37:24]** Yeah, I mean, it's literally that bar isn't going to leave near your shins.

**[37:31]** You're going to keep it close the entire time.

**[37:33]** And it's like, that it is actually something that you can again,

**[37:36]** use the clock to your advantage of like, all right,

**[37:38]** and I'm going to do a rep every however many seconds.

**[37:41]** And I personally find that really helpful

**[37:45]** to keep me accountable when I'm doing things like singles.

**[37:48]** But your athlete IQ, you can write up a sheet.

**[37:51]** We can make an athlete IQ sheet for this one.

**[37:54]** And I think, at least for my remote athletes,

**[37:57]** I've seen that to really benefit on every workout

**[38:00]** that they've done.

**[38:01]** So yeah, I'll be interested to see who

**[38:06]** says they're going to go singles,

**[38:07]** and then all of a sudden three, two, one go

**[38:09]** and they blast off on the barbell.

**[38:11]** So, but I agree.

**[38:12]** I think singles can really be a way to go.

**[38:14]** Three sets of four, four sets of three

**[38:17]** and you're making up maybe one second

**[38:20]** per section on the people that are doing singles.

**[38:23]** That means you drop it and you go

**[38:25]** and then you put your hands back on.

**[38:26]** So it's okay to do that, but we are trying to have

**[38:30]** the same amount of work in the same amount of time

**[38:33]** as the singles gang.

**[38:34]** That's what we're trying to do.

**[38:35]** So it's totally fine to grab some sets of touch and go, but give yourself that extra

**[38:40]** beat.

**[38:41]** Just because we program so many volume singles at Misfit Athletics, those sessions, I've

**[38:47]** seen enough athletes who think they need to pull down into tension on power cleans and

**[38:53]** power snatches.

**[38:54]** And if you do that and do singles, you might not make it to the second section in this

**[38:59]** workout.

**[39:00]** So what I mean by that is you drop the bar, you put your hands on, your hips are still

**[39:04]** up in line with your heads. You're in that kind of like bad deadlift position. And then

**[39:10]** you pull yourself down into tension. That has no place in a workout like this. So when

**[39:15]** I drop the bar, it is no longer in my way anymore. And I can do a basically a squat

**[39:22]** down to the barbell. So I can push my knees out. I can bend at the knee. I can bend at

**[39:27]** the waist. My hands don't need to go like the more accurate you are, the easier the

**[39:32]** it's going to be, but it does not need to be perfect.

**[39:34]** You know, as the, as it gets a little bit heavier, maybe you do take an extra

**[39:38]** second to just make sure that you're, you know, where you need to be there.

**[39:41]** But I do have to throw that out there because there are a lot of athletes

**[39:44]** that you see take really long to do like their set of 12 volume singles.

**[39:49]** And it's like, that's not quite what we're trying to practice here.

**[39:52]** Right.
