---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392"
published: 2026-03-12
episode_number: "392"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:54"
chunk_end: "49:52"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392 - Chunk 5

Episode: [Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[39:54]** When it comes to the thrusters in terms of actual strategy,

**[39:58]** we got a lot of avatars here.

**[40:00]** We had a lot of different people and I would say at the very most

**[40:06]** Like close to scaled level athlete maybe four sets early

**[40:11]** Intermediate athlete three sets and then a lot of athletes to be the end will be two

**[40:16]** Yeah, I mean you saw these guys have to break it up. Yeah, that should tell you

**[40:21]** And we want again, there's nothing wrong with that, but we want to invert when that happens

**[40:27]** we want to

**[40:29]** purposefully do two or three sets for the first four sets of thrusters so that

**[40:36]** if we are racing the clock and we happen to have 135, 85 or even 115, 75 in that

**[40:44]** front rack position that we get at that point get to go push because a lot of

**[40:49]** people are going to have different strategies and end up at a very similar

**[40:52]** point at the end of the workout. A lot of the people that you're competing against

**[40:56]** they're going to do that. But what happens in that last minute or so completely changes

**[41:02]** where you're at on the leaderboard, right? So you do completely different strategies.

**[41:08]** You arrive at the exact same point at like 14 and a half minutes. What happens after

**[41:12]** that? Did you leave enough in the tank to be able to go like get after it and completely

**[41:18]** change your score? Yeah. I don't know. Thrusters guys. I mean,

**[41:26]** We have done also enough workouts where you are ending on a shitty movement.

**[41:30]** So it's like, have you pushed on a row or at the end of an AMRAP?

**[41:34]** Have you, you know, like, who already know what that feels like.

**[41:37]** So like, you can also use your experience there of like, I do need to leave a little

**[41:42]** so that I can give at the end because there's going to be a lot of people really paying

**[41:46]** the price of standing up from their burpee and like being real sad to even want to put

**[41:51]** their chest back on the ground.

**[41:53]** That is where body language can also come into play.

**[41:55]** Yeah, big time. I mean in terms of efficiency with the thruster, we do see a lot of technical issues.

**[42:04]** When someone's moving through a thruster, I'm going to talk you through them. I don't know

**[42:08]** how much they're going to matter in this specific workout. The thruster is not,

**[42:16]** the thruster is not like bucking everything else up in this workout. The thruster is just another

**[42:22]** annoying little chunk of something unless you make it to the point where you're really pushing to try and finish.

**[42:28]** So the biggest thing that we see with the thruster in terms of, we'll talk about the lower half first,

**[42:35]** in terms of the squat mechanics, is people just get too forward.

**[42:38]** We don't keep the whole foot on the ground.

**[42:40]** We don't keep the big toe and the heel pressed into the ground while we drive the knees out.

**[42:45]** That creates the arch, that creates a stable hip position that allows us for our torso to be more kind

**[42:52]** of between our feet instead of back behind our feet.

**[42:55]** And then as you go to stand up,

**[42:58]** the amount of people that we see,

**[42:59]** especially with light barbells,

**[43:00]** try to press early is a huge problem.

**[43:03]** It's no different than a wall ball.

**[43:05]** So we really want to get a feel for,

**[43:08]** while we're warming up,

**[43:09]** we have a little drill that we do,

**[43:11]** and that can be really helpful with that,

**[43:12]** of you've made it up to that quarter squat,

**[43:16]** you're almost done the rep,

**[43:17]** bar is still squarely rested in that front rack position,

**[43:21]** and its knee extension and then hip extension by proxy,

**[43:26]** like we don't push our hips forward,

**[43:28]** they just open because we've snapped our hips

**[43:31]** or our knees open and then stood up.

**[43:34]** That acceleration there is what is gonna drive the bar

**[43:37]** up off the upper body

**[43:40]** and allow you to have that press up overhead.

**[43:42]** So that is really important there.

**[43:44]** The drill that I like to do to make sure

**[43:46]** that we're doing this in both directions

**[43:49]** is you do a front squat and you stop

**[43:52]** at that quarter squat position.

**[43:54]** Am I still where I need to be?

**[43:56]** And then we drive through and we lock that out overhead.

**[43:59]** And then we come down and we knock ourselves back

**[44:02]** into the quarter squat in the front rack position

**[44:05]** and we pause there.

**[44:06]** So essentially on the way up and the way down,

**[44:09]** we are pausing at a quarter squat to say,

**[44:12]** I am using my lower half to drive the bar up.

**[44:15]** And I am using the bar hitting me to break me down

**[44:18]** into my next rep each time.

**[44:20]** We don't want to be squatting with the barbell

**[44:24]** like in our hands.

**[44:25]** We don't wanna be going down there.

**[44:27]** We want it rested on our torso

**[44:30]** to be able to go down into that position.

**[44:32]** So those are the main faults that we see.

**[44:35]** Paige mentioned the thing made famous

**[44:38]** by either the fittest or second fittest man ever,

**[44:41]** Rich Froning and his keep it up overhead.

**[44:44]** I'm so sorry guys, not a single person

**[44:46]** listening to this podcast is rich from it. Don't, don't watch that. Don't do that. Okay.

**[44:51]** I mean, honestly, there are, there are a bunch of other people you can tell have copied it

**[44:54]** over the years and it just cracks me up. So don't do that. Put the bar down. Don't, we're

**[44:58]** not doing any barbell overhead holds. That is not, that is not necessary. Of course,

**[45:03]** unless you want to be famous on YouTube, block the thing out, but do your, do your thrusters

**[45:09]** do your thing. So potentially inadvertently did technique simultaneously there while we

**[45:15]** we were doing strategy. But I do think in this type of workout, the way that you think

**[45:20]** yourself through it does have a lot to do with the technique while you're doing it.

**[45:25]** So I think that kind of makes sense there. Paige and I will finish up here with final

**[45:29]** thoughts over the next like five minutes or so. So if you guys do have any questions,

**[45:34]** definitely let us know. How are you thinking about this page from a, because you go coach

**[45:39]** it and then you go do it. So like, how do you feel about this from the like athlete

**[45:44]** perspective. I mean this is definitely a workout where if I'm around the wrong

**[45:48]** people I'll get baited way too early. Like I will go outside of my strategy

**[45:52]** that I should hold. For me this one is actually a lot more about my body

**[45:57]** language early on and like staying really calm like he said staying relaxed

**[46:01]** in in my movements but also like you know there's got to be a sense of

**[46:06]** urgency within that. Like you know knowing what movements coming next,

**[46:10]** knowing when I'm gonna change the weights on my barbell.

**[46:13]** So obviously, like, I'll go and McKenna will be at the gym

**[46:17]** when I go do it.

**[46:18]** Like, I know she'll keep me, you know,

**[46:21]** in my own head space of where I need to be

**[46:23]** with this workout.

**[46:24]** So making sure that you have somebody like that around.

**[46:26]** But I would typically probably go into this

**[46:29]** and not wanna break it up early on.

**[46:31]** And like, I think right off the bat,

**[46:34]** after like this conversation and watching,

**[46:36]** I wanna see what happens when I do that.

**[46:38]** So I'll probably go a little bit outside

**[46:41]** of what I would typically do,

**[46:42]** and I'm gonna see if it actually pays off in the end.

**[46:44]** And the nuance in what you said,

**[46:46]** I wanna make sure people pick up on this,

**[46:48]** is like she's trying to remain calm,

**[46:52]** to lower, like the floor in the ceiling

**[46:55]** of where her heart rate's gonna be at,

**[46:56]** she's trying to manipulate that.

**[46:59]** She's gonna be in pain three, four minutes in.

**[47:03]** That is still going to happen.

**[47:04]** And that's what happens this time of year

**[47:06]** when we say things can't get too cute.

**[47:09]** We want, you know, probably four and a half minute range.

**[47:12]** Like we're trying to figure out how to add

**[47:14]** about 30 seconds roughly to the rounds that they did,

**[47:18]** give or take.

**[47:18]** That's what someone at Page's level is trying to do.

**[47:21]** So there's no like, oh, okay, well this is 16 minutes,

**[47:26]** so I'm gonna take my time, I'm gonna do my thing.

**[47:29]** It's about the way that you carry yourself,

**[47:32]** your body language, the way that you're breathing,

**[47:35]** in the way that you're pulling back like 10%.

**[47:39]** You're just finding a way to pull back a little bit

**[47:42]** so that you can survive the middle

**[47:45]** and then push as you know

**[47:47]** that things are kind of slowing down there.

**[47:49]** So she basically said she was gonna be calm and not calm.

**[47:53]** Like, and it sounds contradictory,

**[47:55]** but that's what we're trying to accomplish

**[47:58]** at a high level in this sport.

**[48:00]** Is what can we do about some strategic breaks

**[48:04]** in the workout, what can we do about the way that we're breathing and focusing on the way

**[48:08]** that we move that just buys us a little bit more pacing while it looks like we're remaining

**[48:14]** just as steady as everybody else?

**[48:15]** Yeah.

**[48:16]** It's a good way to explain it.

**[48:18]** I think it's unique that a lot of coaches that do also compete or at least do the workouts

**[48:26]** have to be ready to deliver five different strategies

**[48:32]** to people and then make sense

**[48:34]** of what that means to themself.

**[48:35]** Yeah.

**[48:36]** Like it's very much in a vacuum for me.

**[48:37]** Like I know you and I know you and I know you

**[48:40]** and I know all of these people as individual athletes

**[48:42]** and I just give them the advice

**[48:44]** that I would wanna give them.

**[48:44]** But then there's a lot swimming around upstairs

**[48:48]** for you personally for the way that you execute it.

**[48:51]** Yeah, it is pretty easy to kind of get lost in the sauce

**[48:54]** because it's like last week, for example,

**[48:56]** I have athletes that are very good at ring muscle ups and I have athletes who maybe don't

**[49:00]** get one.

**[49:01]** So it's like the strategies are very different as to how we're going to approach that workout

**[49:05]** and then, okay, now it's time to think about myself and what does that look like?

**[49:10]** But again, you know, part of the reason coaches have coaches as well.

**[49:14]** So utilizing that, you know, is helpful.

**[49:18]** For sure.

**[49:19]** I honestly didn't do that last week guys.

**[49:21]** So don't be like me.

**[49:23]** So yeah, that's the thing here.

**[49:26]** Maybe the thing that wasn't talked about enough, we talk about it regularly, but needs to be

**[49:31]** brought up this time of year.

**[49:33]** This workout is going to be a four out of 10 pain, and then five, and then six, and

**[49:41]** then seven, and then eight, and then nine, and then 10, if done properly.

**[49:45]** You could be out of 10, nine minutes in, and then you survive, and you just do what you're

**[49:50]** going to do.
