---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392"
published: 2026-03-12
episode_number: "392"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:52"
chunk_end: "55:49"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392 - Chunk 6

Episode: [Open Workout 26.3: 26.2 Recap, Live reactions, warming up, strategizing, & more - E.392](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:52]** at that point. But this is going to be really bad and you have to know that. You have to accept it.

**[49:59]** You know, I when I think about last week's workout as an example, it's a very different version but

**[50:04]** it's the exact same thing. It's that time that you see a triplet and you're a muscle up athlete,

**[50:11]** you love muscle ups, you're good to go, but there's like an intense rowing or something

**[50:17]** before and you jump up and you do that first set and it's like demoralizing because you're

**[50:22]** like wow that did not feel the way that I thought it was going to.

**[50:28]** That's a bit more of a mental game than this version is like it will continuously get worse.

**[50:36]** So you can't when it does hit seven out of 10 you can't turtle at that point like you

**[50:43]** signed up for it.

**[50:44]** It is what it is.

**[50:45]** have to keep going, you have to keep digging. It's going to continue to get worse. It's

**[50:49]** going to get a little bit slower and that's okay, but it's not like, oh no, I did the

**[50:54]** wrong thing here. Now I'm screwed. I can't keep going. A lot of people back off at those

**[50:58]** points and that's when you can get like 15 more reps out of them in a redo when you stay

**[51:05]** on their ass. And a lot of us have quarterfinals and semi-finals to work about. So let's just

**[51:10]** do it once. Let's do it that first time.

**[51:13]** Yep. I like I'm always been, you know, I've always kind of been somebody who like, I don't

**[51:20]** just like do it for myself. Like again, team athlete my whole life, I'm going to lean into

**[51:24]** it for other people as well. So like, you know, we have a lot of athletes that are new to semi

**[51:30]** finals prep or who are new to quarterfinals prep. And it's like, you guys can lead by example,

**[51:35]** by leaning into these types of workouts to show everyone else like, Hey, we're in it with you,

**[51:40]** like you guys are gonna go into the trenches on quarterfinals prep, you're gonna go into the

**[51:44]** trenches on semifinals prep and like practice what you preach like you know I'll take it from

**[51:51]** Kenzie all day long don't just talk about it be about it and it's like this is a prime example

**[51:57]** of a workout to really kind of let that you know that phrase shine especially within the

**[52:02]** misfit community so I think it'd be really really cool to really see how many people can

**[52:06]** and dig into the trenches on this workout specifically.

**[52:11]** Yeah, if you are highly invested for any level, right?

**[52:17]** There are people at the highest level

**[52:18]** that aren't as invested.

**[52:20]** There are people at the lowest level that are all in.

**[52:24]** They're super excited about the open.

**[52:26]** If you are really into this and wanna do as best as you can,

**[52:33]** having a judge and a coach separately

**[52:36]** that are there where the judge is counting the way

**[52:39]** that you're asking them to count.

**[52:41]** And the coach is, hey, that's a little bit too fast.

**[52:45]** Okay, we're reaching that point, we're starting to slow down.

**[52:48]** It's time to keep that pace.

**[52:50]** You know, we gotta hold on, this is gonna hurt,

**[52:52]** but you can do it, like that kind of thing.

**[52:54]** That's another thing that can just completely change

**[52:57]** what you end up having for a score in the workout.

**[52:59]** Getting into the wrong head space, the wrong strategy,

**[53:03]** the wrong movement patterns in a workout like this

**[53:06]** will chop off bigger chunks of what you're capable of

**[53:09]** than what you would think.

**[53:11]** Yeah, 100%.

**[53:13]** Definitely have experienced that too.

**[53:15]** Well, gang, you were not handed any.

**[53:18]** Yeah, you were not handed any short, dirty workouts,

**[53:22]** but I did tell all of you that the open

**[53:25]** is all medium workouts and quarterfinals

**[53:27]** is mostly short workouts.

**[53:29]** So we have that in there.

**[53:31]** It's built into your program.

**[53:32]** We've done way more medium workouts

**[53:35]** than we normally would have, especially on the interval side, leading up to this.

**[53:39]** It's a doozy.

**[53:40]** I don't know what to, I don't know what to yeah, seriously.

**[53:43]** This is, this is very much GPP.

**[53:45]** There would be people in your gym that get to play around with the heavier

**[53:49]** barbell that you feel like it's unfair because they're not as strong as you.

**[53:53]** Um, but that buy-in is that buy-in to show off the fact that you can cruise

**[53:59]** through 12 at 135 is too hefty.

**[54:02]** Um, if you didn't bring GPP along for the ride.

**[54:05]** We just forgot our propaganda in both from the way that we spoke and from the programming

**[54:11]** itself.

**[54:12]** That's for damn sure.

**[54:13]** Yep.

**[54:14]** All right.

**[54:15]** Did we do it?

**[54:16]** We did it.

**[54:17]** Thank you for tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast.

**[54:19]** Thank you to our show sponsor, Gorilla Mine.

**[54:21]** Head to gorillamine.com forward slash Misfit or use the code word Misfit at checkout to

**[54:24]** save and support the podcast.

**[54:28]** Misfit affiliate Rushmore phase begins Monday, March 16th.

**[54:33]** You can get a two week free trial by going to teammissfits.com.

**[54:36]** Click on the sign up now button, Sugarwad, StreamFit, or PushPress, or you can email

**[54:41]** me directly, coachatmissbutathletics.com.

**[54:44]** I will give you the first two weeks in our PDF form that you would get if you signed

**[54:49]** up directly on teammissfit.com.

**[54:52]** If you want to set up a call and talk through what the programming is like, I'm always available

**[54:56]** for that.

**[54:57]** Just shoot me an email.

**[54:59]** programs that are available on Fitter and oh yeah, Gorilla Mode, vanilla ice cream,

**[55:04]** well done. What was I talking about? The programming, instagram.com, forward slash

**[55:10]** mr.athletics, the link in bio on Fitter and Strivee, all of our individual programs, free

**[55:16]** trials are live now and we will see you guys next week for the recap show. Make sure that

**[55:22]** if you want your name on there to potentially win one of two sets of prizes that you go

**[55:28]** to a spreadsheet and fill that out. I will email it out, I will post it, all that good

**[55:33]** stuff. See you guys next week.

**[55:34]** We're all misfits.

**[55:35]** All right, you can't take a bunch of misfits. You're a scrappy little misfit, just like

**[55:36]** me.

**[55:37]** Making a bunch of misfits, I ever said either.
