---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381"
published: 2025-12-31
episode_number: "381"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:48"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into a special edition Misfit Podcast in just a few days.

**[00:22]** The Misfit Athletics Open Prep Program starts Phase 3 gets going on Monday, January 5th. We

**[00:29]** We will have the one week free trials turned back on for all of you, for all of our programs,

**[00:35]** all of our offerings on Fitter and Strivee before we...

**[00:38]** So here's a piece of feedback that we've gotten.

**[00:41]** And this is typically from like non rain or shine misfit crew people.

**[00:45]** So I'll call you out a little bit, but like, give me the meat of the episode immediately.

**[00:50]** We're going to do read, listen, watch at the end.

**[00:53]** We know the real ones will stick around for that.

**[00:55]** But after housekeeping, we will jump straight into open prep phase three stuff.

**[01:00]** So there are four main ways for you guys to support what we do.

**[01:05]** If you like the podcast, if you like the content we put on social media, on YouTube, etc.

**[01:10]** Here are the four ways that you can support us.

**[01:13]** Number one are training camps.

**[01:15]** And we have one coming up exactly one month away, which is really exciting from camp at

**[01:21]** CrossFit Roots in Boulder, Colorado, open and quarterfinals prep camp style.

**[01:25]** And you can find the tickets in the Lincoln bio on Instagram.

**[01:29]** Number two, obviously our programs, we're going to talk about

**[01:31]** programming the entire episode today.

**[01:34]** And you can find our individual programs through Fitter and

**[01:37]** Strivee on our Lincoln bio.

**[01:39]** You can also find our affiliate programming there, or you can

**[01:42]** just head to teamisfit.com.

**[01:43]** Click on sign up now and you get a two week free trial at StreamFit,

**[01:46]** Sugarwad or PushPress, or if you'd like to see the PDF version that we do

**[01:50]** for the website, just email me coach at Misfit athletics.com.

**[01:54]** Number three, sharpen the axe code com.

**[01:57]** Got quite a few DMS as always.

**[02:00]** The amount of emails and social media posts that I do related to a new gear

**[02:04]** collection is feels borderline obnoxious to me.

**[02:08]** And then I still get the DMS of like, I missed it.

**[02:11]** What do I do?

**[02:12]** We always do extras in case there need to be exchanges or honestly,

**[02:16]** for you people that I'm that I'm talking to.

**[02:17]** So sharpen the axe code com.

**[02:19]** We have a handful of, and honestly, I posted this in Telegram yesterday, so some of the stuff's gone.

**[02:24]** And maybe in your size already, but we've still got some sweatpants, hoodies,

**[02:29]** crews, long sleeve t-shirts, crops, all that good stuff.

**[02:31]** So sharpentheaxco.com, maybe you even use the codeword page.

**[02:36]** Save yourself 10%. You could, could if you want.

**[02:38]** And last but not least, we have a podcast sponsor that I, I don't want to say I begged them,

**[02:44]** but I annoyed them for long enough.

**[02:46]** Yeah, there it is. Mine was in this.

**[02:49]** The podcast sponsor is Gorilla Mind.

**[02:53]** Gorilla Mind is a supplement company that essentially inspired me to start my own supplement company,

**[02:59]** which now does not exist. So I am back on the Gorilla Mind.

**[03:02]** Honestly, I was the whole time, aside from a few products.

**[03:05]** And the product of the day today is their Omega 3 Elixir.

**[03:09]** It's a really good way to explain what they do.

**[03:11]** They basically take ingredients that everybody knows works and they give them to you in doses

**[03:15]** that actually do something. I take fish oil mainly for mental health benefits. So a maintenance dose

**[03:23]** of EPA would be around one gram. And then if you're going through a tough time or you're under a bunch

**[03:29]** of stress, two grams. So I would take pretty often I do a double serving. I take two, two soft gels

**[03:35]** twice a day. And then I get like 2500 milligrams of EPA. And of course, a bunch of DHA in there,

**[03:41]** But just really great products, really cool company.

**[03:44]** So GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit or just use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[03:49]** As always, thank you for following our programs, for going to training

**[03:53]** camps, for using the codes, all of that stuff.

**[03:55]** We do really appreciate it.

**[03:57]** Okay.

**[03:58]** It is open prep time.

**[03:59]** Again, Monday, January 5th, we get started.

**[04:02]** Seven day free trials are turned on.

**[04:04]** One quick little note that some of you know, some of you don't know,

**[04:07]** this phase is six weeks long.

**[04:09]** CrossFit HQ loves to make us wait until like the day before the open to know when the open is.

**[04:16]** It's like slightly tongue in cheek. There was one year where like no one knew when it was and

**[04:21]** they were two in the same year. I don't know. Yeah, basically. And then after that, instead of

**[04:25]** the nine week phase, we go straight into a five week quarterfinals peaking prep phase. And we won't

**[04:31]** spend too much time talking about that today, but I just wanted to let you guys know, not a

**[04:35]** a traditional nine week phase, this one six weeks long.

**[04:38]** We basically just get right into the meat of everything right at the beginning of the

**[04:41]** phase.

**[04:42]** We don't really draw stuff out quite as long.

**[04:44]** And obviously this podcast is dedicated to letting you guys know how that all works.

**[04:49]** So when we've been doing shout out of the week, my shout out of the week is the rain

**[04:54]** or shine crew, because as of next Monday, you've made it through monsoon season.

**[05:00]** It's just a little bit easier.

**[05:02]** Yeah.

**[05:03]** I love the idea of a narrative related to something like an open prep.

**[05:08]** I think back to when I would be listening to like Slipknot and Notorious B.I.G. in the

**[05:15]** parking lot before going in for a football game.

**[05:18]** I just like the idea of that extra moment that you take being in your car and then walking

**[05:25]** through the threshold and this could be your garage gym, heading in for the first time

**[05:28]** for open prep, or it could be heading into your actual gym. But I think it's so powerful to let

**[05:36]** yourself buy into stuff like that because you can get a little extra pep in your stuff,

**[05:41]** you can convince yourself now that it's not Tuesday, October 19th or whatever, you can convince

**[05:47]** yourself to really buy into what you're doing and knowing that, hey, we are now locked in on

**[05:53]** open prep to go do the open and then quarterfinals prep to go do quarterfinals and we continue on in

**[05:58]** in that way. And I just think that those narratives are very special and very powerful. And don't

**[06:04]** be too cool to let yourself buy into that.

**[06:07]** Yeah. Just like you said, we've made it out the mud. That's the tough months of like,

**[06:14]** why am I doing this? What am I doing it for? All those questions are now, you're answering

**[06:19]** them. You've been answering them. But I think phase three also being a bit shorter can,

**[06:27]** I think it'll be a little bit more exciting.

**[06:29]** I think we can get people to buy in just like that much more.

**[06:32]** And, you know, using Telegram, like we have some ideas

**[06:37]** that we're coming up with here to help you guys

**[06:40]** kind of stay accountable through these weeks,

**[06:42]** which I think will be fun and exciting.

**[06:44]** So I'm really excited for phase three.

**[06:46]** I'm just gonna give a shout out to my remote athletes.

**[06:49]** Like I like to kind of call them at least once a month

**[06:53]** and make sure that like, you know,

**[06:55]** we know we're both alive and well,

**[06:57]** even if we talk quite a bit, but I've been calling all of them today, tomorrow, and everybody

**[07:04]** is just in a really good head space of like, I'm excited for what's to come. Like they're

**[07:09]** excited for phase three, which for us as coaches, like, and as programmers, it's like, it's

**[07:14]** exactly what we want to hear that helps us, you know, continue to move the needle for

**[07:19]** what we do as well. So yeah, I mean, I'm excited. I've had four calls today and all nice and

**[07:26]** long and chatty and positive.

**[07:29]** Yep, that's awesome. So we are going to open the podcast

**[07:33]** explanation of open prep with talking about say you're new to

**[07:37]** misfit athletics or you're rejoining us how to choose what

**[07:40]** program, program and subscription. And then we're

**[07:43]** going to do some FAQs. And I'm not like calling people out, but

**[07:47]** I think even seasoned misfits could use some reminders in

**[07:51]** these categories. And I think it'd be really helpful. And I'm

**[07:53]** actually probably going to chop this part and put it as a standalone video on YouTube

**[07:57]** that we can kind of share. So keep your eye out for that. A lot of times in Telegram,

**[08:03]** a quick little copy paste of like, I think you should probably go watch this segment

**[08:07]** could be really helpful for somebody. So with choosing your program, there's actually differences

**[08:12]** now this time of year. So when you go to Fitter or Stri-V, you're going to be presented with

**[08:18]** three options, pro comp or GPP. GPP is our unsung hero. This like really cool program

**[08:26]** that is sorry, don't really care about the open quarterfinals, et cetera. I want to be,

**[08:32]** you know, healthier, happier, stronger, fitter, all of that stuff. And moving up a step from there

**[08:39]** is our comp bundle. So that basically gives you access to hatch it, which is going to be our open

**[08:45]** and quarterfinals level athletes, masters and GPPs.

**[08:48]** You're going to get all three of those.

**[08:49]** And last but not least, you can sign up for Pro.

**[08:52]** Now, I will do my usual anti-businessman speech here by saying,

**[08:58]** normally we tell you, hey, straight up,

**[09:00]** semi-finals, games, athlete, go to Pro.

**[09:02]** That's how this works.

**[09:03]** This time of year, if classic CrossFit is not your bread and butter,

**[09:07]** you should be on Hatchet.

**[09:08]** And I move people from Pro to Hatchet in a way where I will take,

**[09:13]** hey, we're actually not gonna bias this certain thing,

**[09:16]** we're gonna bring something like the aerobic CrossFit in.

**[09:18]** So if you are, in Paige, you could be an example,

**[09:21]** like you like the more athletic and complicated it gets

**[09:26]** as you get to the semi-finals level

**[09:27]** and the CrossFit Games level, that sort of thing.

**[09:30]** And Paige might not know it yet,

**[09:32]** but she'll be on some of the more open style programming.

**[09:36]** So it's not just, like there is enough work on Hatchet,

**[09:40]** The volume could be exactly the same.

**[09:43]** We are just giving you more of an opportunity to cycle through things at a faster pace.
