---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381"
published: 2025-12-31
episode_number: "381"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:47"
chunk_end: "39:45"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381 - Chunk 4

Episode: [[../episode|Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381]]

## Transcript

**[29:47]** in the workout style that they do,

**[29:48]** in the durations that they do.

**[29:50]** Part of the scaling will be time caps,

**[29:53]** sort of like they have in the open.

**[29:54]** The only caveat here is we have deadlift, wall walk,

**[29:58]** thruster, and bar pull gymnastics as a phase bias.

**[30:02]** You will not see those within the actual open simulation,

**[30:07]** but you will be overexposed to those things.

**[30:10]** So don't you worry about that at all.

**[30:11]** And I think this is gonna give us an opportunity

**[30:14]** to deliver something meaningful to the feedback

**[30:18]** of how challenging it is to have that athlete IQ.

**[30:21]** and we want to do these competition simulations

**[30:25]** before we sort of fuck up the real deal.

**[30:29]** So you'll have a sort of PDF worksheet every week

**[30:33]** and you guys can let us know,

**[30:34]** do you want PagerEye to fill out a fake one

**[30:38]** before it starts, that kind of thing.

**[30:40]** We will do a basically straight up nerd talk,

**[30:43]** it's the scientific method.

**[30:44]** How do you think this workout's gonna go?

**[30:47]** How did it go and what would you do to fix it?

**[30:49]** So you're basically creating your hypothesis,

**[30:51]** you're testing it and then you're retesting it.

**[30:53]** And the cool thing is they program the same movements

**[30:56]** every single year.

**[30:58]** So you are gonna have at least one workout

**[31:00]** where you're like, aha, like I think I got it.

**[31:03]** I think this combination, I know how to execute on it.

**[31:08]** And there's a pretty good chance

**[31:09]** you're gonna be able to go a little bit harder in the open

**[31:11]** because we can say it's open simulation,

**[31:14]** but it's not the same as being a near affiliate,

**[31:16]** Friday Night Lights, that whole kind of thing.

**[31:18]** So I think that's a fun addition.

**[31:20]** We've got some doozies in there for sure.

**[31:22]** They were fun to write.

**[31:23]** I'll peek behind the curtain.

**[31:24]** I completely cheated on the first stimulus and acronym

**[31:27]** and I just changed it after the fact

**[31:29]** because I love the workout so much.

**[31:31]** So week two, I think it's like day five maybe,

**[31:34]** it'll be like Friday for most people.

**[31:36]** And then that was intentional,

**[31:37]** sort of coming off that rest day.

**[31:39]** Keep your eye out for that first one

**[31:40]** because I feel real good about it.

**[31:42]** All right, let's get into the nitty gritty,

**[31:45]** the bias for each category.

**[31:48]** We will talk a lot more about Hatchet than we will Pro.

**[31:52]** And if you listen to the beginning of this podcast,

**[31:54]** you probably know why.

**[31:55]** So our mandatory lifting begins with two days a week

**[31:59]** of peaking your One Rep Max squat snatch.

**[32:02]** And I love the challenge of,

**[32:04]** okay, we know how to peak it over the course of nine weeks.

**[32:07]** How do we do it in six weeks?

**[32:08]** And we actually know exactly how to do this

**[32:10]** because we get told four, five, six weeks out

**[32:14]** from a major, major competition

**[32:16]** that we are gonna be doing this movement.

**[32:17]** And whether again, it's very short period of time,

**[32:20]** or we're going like three days a week maybe,

**[32:22]** or out across these six weeks,

**[32:25]** and it's actually kind of five weeks to be honest,

**[32:28]** after test week, but triple double single,

**[32:30]** triple double single, triple double single.

**[32:33]** And we build on the weights that are used.

**[32:35]** The goal is to build on the weights that are used

**[32:37]** across each one.

**[32:38]** Wow, does it work.

**[32:39]** It goes all the way back to myself

**[32:42]** and two friends at the gym signed up

**[32:44]** for a local competition against semi-finals

**[32:47]** games level athletes because we knew we could beat them in event one and it would really

**[32:51]** piss them off.

**[32:52]** And it was one or max one person did shoulder overhead, one did clean, one did snatch.

**[32:56]** And I think my one rep max snatch before the comp was 230.

**[33:00]** And I snatched three days a week on this program and I hit 255.

**[33:05]** And like we got ourselves in the finals by accident though, which really did not belong

**[33:10]** in the finals at all.

**[33:12]** So like, I think, I think one of my teammates had had a beer, um, before the final.

**[33:17]** It's a little old school crossfit.

**[33:18]** Yeah, exactly.

**[33:21]** Um, but this works really well.

**[33:23]** And another piece of feedback that you guys have given and something that's in

**[33:26]** competition prep a lot more often, just because of what happens to your nervous

**[33:30]** system as you're trying to overreach is we have percentage ranges.

**[33:33]** So it's not going to be the typical 70, 72 and a half, 75, 77 and a half.

**[33:39]** You're going to have a range and those ranges only go up on one side.

**[33:43]** So like if it started at 80 to 82 and a half, then it goes for 80 to 85.

**[33:47]** You could still start at 80.

**[33:49]** You could stay there and your linear progression could be, I'm going to move better with this

**[33:52]** barbell than I did before as opposed to adding weight.

**[33:56]** So I know that the One Ritmax Clean stuff that everybody's just done, like the true

**[34:01]** Olympic lifting style, king phases are pretty brutal.

**[34:05]** And again, it's written this way because in competition prep,

**[34:10]** we want to make sure that you truly are seeing how heavy you can go for one rep

**[34:16]** if they put it into the open or quarterfinals.

**[34:18]** Yeah, I really like the exposure twice a week too.

**[34:21]** I think, you know, especially starting at the lighter percentages,

**[34:25]** you could say the same for squat clean, but getting your barbell therapy dialed in

**[34:29]** prior to the lifting session can really go a long way, especially for snatch.

**[34:34]** excuse me, it's such a technical lift.

**[34:37]** And just really dialing in those small little things.

**[34:40]** We gotta bust that video out for you guys.

**[34:43]** Yeah, yeah, for sure.

**[34:45]** So something to keep in mind,

**[34:47]** like figure, find those things that work for your warmup,

**[34:51]** what makes you feel good and get after those sessions.

**[34:53]** Cause six weeks goes by pretty quickly too.

**[34:56]** So you get the exposure in.

**[34:57]** I am so happy with the way that we have tricked athletes

**[35:02]** and the moving way better with the complexes

**[35:04]** that we've done recently.

**[35:05]** So like before it would be this many weeks at this position,

**[35:08]** this many weeks at this position,

**[35:10]** and then at this position.

**[35:11]** And there's something about starting at a lighter weight

**[35:14]** and working up over time where you're asking a CrossFitter

**[35:17]** to be a little bit more dynamic and hold onto the barbell.

**[35:20]** They're gonna learn, they're gonna be forced to learn

**[35:22]** how to move.

**[35:23]** And I'm really excited to see how people go into

**[35:27]** Squatsnatch survivor, finding their One Rep Max

**[35:31]** and the way that they move based on doing those things.

**[35:34]** I've just really liked the results

**[35:35]** and you guys' videos have been really good.

**[35:37]** And I think better than the more linear style progression

**[35:40]** that we've done in the past with the positions.

**[35:42]** So hopefully that theory actually comes true,

**[35:44]** but I've been really impressed with how people are moving.

**[35:47]** Yeah, Peyton, a couple of weeks ago,

**[35:49]** she's like, tell me how I'm moving a positional e-mom

**[35:53]** right around my one rep max.

**[35:54]** I'm like, all right, it's pretty impressive.

**[35:57]** Peyton intensity is freedom.

**[35:59]** There is just something different about something

**[36:02]** that requires your attention and requires you to be dynamic

**[36:06]** as opposed to like,

**[36:07]** why don't we do this drawn out skill session

**[36:09]** that takes 27 hours and isn't challenging.

**[36:12]** And that's how we find flow state is the challenge

**[36:15]** has to be big enough,

**[36:16]** then you're the one supplying the effort.

**[36:17]** And so that's how that works.

**[36:18]** And I was hoping it was gonna work that way,

**[36:20]** but seeing it happen in real time was super cool.

**[36:22]** All right, volume work.

**[36:24]** This has been a staple of our programming

**[36:26]** and something that I think we've gotten our athletes

**[36:28]** better out over the course of, I would say like two to three years.

**[36:31]** My brain doesn't do well with time, but like, I remember starting to be like,

**[36:35]** you know what volume work isn't for a CrossFit or isn't really always just

**[36:40]** taking a back squat out and doing sets of six or eight or 10 volume work is,

**[36:45]** oh my goodness, I have to do another power clean single in this workout.

**[36:48]** Like I'm going to die.

**[36:50]** We got to overreach there.

**[36:51]** We got to add, we got to go heavier.

**[36:53]** We got to do more reps.

**[36:55]** And that's where this sort of came from.

**[36:56]** So the rotation that you're going to see is basically like touch and go squat cleans,

**[37:02]** then volume singles with power clean, and then vice versa as we go.

**[37:06]** I did backload a lot more of the power cleans because we are getting closer and closer to

**[37:11]** prep and I don't want the like, as we get really heavy with the squat snatch to overdo

**[37:16]** that movement pattern because we've got back squat, squat snatch, squat clean and front

**[37:21]** squat.

**[37:22]** So you'll notice that as things progress and get a little bit heavier, you're going to

**[37:25]** be doing more of the power clean.

**[37:26]** that the power clean volume happens significantly more often in the sport than squat clean volume

**[37:31]** does. And I don't really know how those feel, to be perfectly honest.

**[37:36]** They're rough. Page, you probably do. Yeah.

**[37:39]** They're rough. I mean, and there's different things you can think about. Like if you go

**[37:42]** back to some either opener quarterfinals or even semi-final style workouts, it's like,

**[37:46]** all right, you have 30 squats notched for time. You have, you know, a ladder of 15,

**[37:52]** 12, nine on singles,

**[37:54]** on power things or whatever it is.

**[37:55]** It's like, how do you attack those to

**[37:57]** like minimize the amount of time you're working?

**[38:00]** And it's like, I'm going to try and do a rep every 12 seconds.

**[38:02]** I'm going to try and do a rep every five seconds.

**[38:04]** Like there's different ways you can also think and

**[38:06]** strategize these volume singles, which I like.

**[38:10]** I think back to it was quarterfinals and online semi-finals.

**[38:13]** There was the, I don't remember how many reps it was.

**[38:16]** It was like 10 clean and jerks at whatever weight,

**[38:19]** rest a minute, 10 clean and jerks.

**[38:21]** and it got up to 165.

**[38:23]** McKenna and I are doing that workout.

**[38:24]** It's like when you are hitting

**[38:26]** fatigue at that point and you're tired,

**[38:28]** it's like, all right, well,

**[38:29]** what is the least amount of time between reps

**[38:31]** that you can still do another rep?

**[38:32]** Is it eight seconds? Is it 10 seconds?

**[38:35]** There's still a lot of learning

**[38:37]** happening in these volume singles of sets of 12, sets of 10.

**[38:41]** Again, we want you moving well

**[38:43]** and flirting with that fatigue factor,

**[38:46]** but still finding that upper limit of like,

**[38:50]** All right, I know I can hold singles at 185 every six seconds.

**[38:56]** And knowing those things when you go into a MetCon or an ascending ladder can be really,

**[39:01]** really helpful.

**[39:01]** And this is why it's so important for the listeners that you are joining me for these

**[39:06]** podcasts now because they want to know how you get the athlete IQ. And I can tell you

**[39:13]** what I think works, but it's different coming from the athlete. And it's not just

**[39:19]** how heavy can you go for 12, 10, 8, 6 of drop and reset power clean singles?

**[39:25]** What is the exact weight? And then when you do the math out, how often do you need to pick up

**[39:29]** the barbell? Because then when that exact scenario is presented to you, you can say to your coach

**[39:35]** that's there with you, tell me to get my hands on every six seconds, like that kind of thing.

**[39:39]** Tell me if I'm behind or ahead, that sort of things. The athlete IQ is just buried in every
