---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381"
published: 2025-12-31
episode_number: "381"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:45"
chunk_end: "49:42"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381]]

## Transcript

**[39:45]** single piece that we do and we shouldn't be writing pieces that don't have the ability to

**[39:50]** further your athlete IQ. Positional work is going to be the front squat. If you were an

**[39:55]** OG misfit, you know how I feel about the relationship between the back squat and the

**[40:02]** front squat. I think that the front squat is a skill movement. I think that if you can back

**[40:06]** squat a bunch and you can't front squat, then you probably move like shit and it could be,

**[40:11]** you know, a mobility sort of thing.

**[40:14]** But you need to learn how to move better in the front squat.

**[40:19]** The back squat will move the needle on total strength significantly more,

**[40:23]** especially if you have the like true Olympic style high bar back squat

**[40:29]** that then translates over to your front squat.

**[40:31]** But basically we are taking if you did the positional overhead squats,

**[40:36]** we are taking that and putting it into the front squat from phase two to phase three.

**[40:39]** And while I loved the 20 second squats, they weren't heavy enough.

**[40:44]** Yeah.

**[40:46]** In certain instances. So if I had like a really strong person, I loved the 20 second squats.

**[40:52]** Because that really forced them to figure out how to move through space.

**[40:56]** Yeah.

**[40:56]** But if someone is more, yeah, if somebody's a little bit more worried about actual

**[41:02]** strength accumulation, I found that that variation made it significantly easier for someone to follow

**[41:08]** follow a true progression and add weight over time.

**[41:10]** So as much as I want to haze you guys

**[41:12]** with the 20 second ones again,

**[41:13]** and I'm not saying they're gone,

**[41:15]** I'm not promising that they're gone,

**[41:17]** but these are 10 second front squats.

**[41:19]** Last but not least, we talked about it already,

**[41:21]** but basically we're going to move the needle a bit more

**[41:24]** with our, you know, sort of squatting movements

**[41:26]** by doing the back squat,

**[41:28]** but we are surrounded by all of these other squat movements.

**[41:31]** So we really need to make sure

**[41:33]** that we're just doing the maintenance work here.

**[41:35]** That being said, do not do the back squat

**[41:38]** if you don't understand that it is down under control

**[41:41]** and stand up as fast as you possibly can.

**[41:43]** It's a glorified warm-up.

**[41:44]** Otherwise, we are looking for you to have that, like,

**[41:47]** violent knee and hip extension and that click in the barbell

**[41:52]** every single time you stand up.

**[41:54]** One thing I have noticed on social media

**[41:56]** is some of you guys take the tempo thing way too literally,

**[41:59]** and you lower yourself, like, on, like, a 400 count

**[42:03]** to the bottom.

**[42:04]** And I think there's gonna be too much fatigue

**[42:06]** fatigue in that situation is just be so under control that you can stand up as fast as possible.

**[42:15]** All right.

**[42:16]** So normally we have this little section in this list where it's like these next lifts

**[42:22]** are only mandatory on pro and they will be non mandatory on hatchet.

**[42:26]** Cool thing this time of year is we're about to go do actual CrossFit.

**[42:31]** So having 10 lifts in the program is not necessary.

**[42:34]** We have what we think over the course of those five days to be exactly what is necessary

**[42:39]** to get ready for in season programming.

**[42:42]** And then the non mandatory is the same for pro and hatchet.

**[42:46]** We have a hang power clean complex is very similar to the complex work that you guys

**[42:50]** have been doing, but we are stretching out the rest period a little bit and asking you

**[42:54]** to go a little bit heavier.

**[42:55]** And again, this variation doing the hang power clean is just another way for us to make sure

**[43:01]** that we are not overdoing it in that like squat or lunge pattern, but we are making

**[43:06]** sure that there's enough pulling happening within the, within the clean work.

**[43:10]** Next would be the heavy split jerk.

**[43:12]** This is the time of year where you got to make sure that you've brushed up a little

**[43:17]** bit on that skill.

**[43:18]** Again, making sure that you guys have ranges to work through.

**[43:22]** I know we're going to get the questions.

**[43:23]** No they're so annoying.

**[43:25]** Please get the blocks out if you have them.

**[43:27]** a completely different session to lower 80%. And like, that is just not, that's not where

**[43:34]** it's at. So it's cool if you don't have it. I have instructions in the, you know, in the

**[43:39]** workouts where it's like, Hey, if you don't have blocks, this is probably a better percentage.

**[43:44]** And the really cool thing about movements like splitcher, because they're a little bit

**[43:47]** more of an expression of strength and skill than they are a true strength builder. So

**[43:53]** if you move faster and move really well

**[43:56]** and sort of have that bent back knee

**[43:58]** and you're not overextended

**[43:59]** and you're pressing under the bar

**[44:00]** as opposed to trying to move the bar up,

**[44:02]** being at 70 or 75% versus 80 is totally fine

**[44:06]** and will move the needle

**[44:07]** and honestly might move the needle more

**[44:09]** for someone who's a little bit less skilled

**[44:11]** when it comes to that movement.

**[44:12]** Last but not least, heavy bench press.

**[44:14]** If we are going to go overhead,

**[44:17]** we always finish with that AMRAP set.

**[44:20]** But again, you don't have to take it

**[44:21]** so literally as like, I might drop this thing on my neck.

**[44:25]** It's just athletes who are a bit more power output based

**[44:29]** are gonna get a little bit fewer reps there,

**[44:32]** but they don't necessarily need the more reps

**[44:34]** if they already have the power.

**[44:35]** And then the athlete who isn't quite as powerful

**[44:38]** but has the muscle endurance,

**[44:39]** eking out those extra reps,

**[44:42]** say I get four and Paige gets six,

**[44:44]** we're kind of getting a personalized stimulus

**[44:46]** when it comes to that.

**[44:46]** So there's gonna be an AMRAP set to finish the bench

**[44:49]** each time if you choose it as a non-mandatory piece,

**[44:51]** but just keep in mind that it doesn't need to be truly

**[44:55]** too failure.

**[44:56]** You want it within the context of what strength work

**[44:58]** is supposed to actually feel like.

**[45:00]** Yeah.

**[45:02]** I just want to touch back on the speed work

**[45:05]** with the back squats.

**[45:06]** I love pairing that up with the snatch

**[45:09]** because the movements are so similar.

**[45:12]** Like, obviously, one is a squat, one is a pull.

**[45:14]** But the way you're moving through your lower half

**[45:17]** can really, really benefit from the back squat, the speed work,

**[45:21]** into your snatch.

**[45:22]** Like I still to this day, I did tempo.

**[45:25]** We did, it was the 10 by threes tempo back squats.

**[45:28]** And to this day, I'm still convinced that like

**[45:31]** that is the reason I added 15 pounds to my snatch that year.

**[45:34]** Just the speed work really, really can go so far

**[45:38]** if you can do it right.

**[45:40]** Yeah. And it's, we'll do it at camp.

**[45:42]** I do it at every camp.

**[45:43]** I do the thing where I get into the bottom position

**[45:46]** of a cleaner, a snatch, and then I just put the barbell

**[45:48]** on my back down in the bottom or put it up overhead.

**[45:51]** And I'm like, why are we back squatting

**[45:53]** if it's not even in the sport?

**[45:54]** Well, here you go.

**[45:55]** Right?

**[45:56]** Exactly.

**[45:57]** So way to move the most weight in the exact same position.

**[45:59]** So your drive off of the floor is a squat

**[46:02]** and your catch is obviously a squat.

**[46:03]** Your stand up is definitely a squat.

**[46:06]** So that's why that can really help move the needle there.

**[46:08]** All right, so it was a sad moment for me to transition

**[46:11]** from the meathead work to the bitch work.

**[46:13]** This is where the money is made.

**[46:15]** This is where magic happens.

**[46:17]** This is the, you know, this is a lot of the rain or shine crew.

**[46:21]** Like when we do the affiliate, we have our version of it in our affiliate

**[46:25]** programming is an engine program add-on.

**[46:28]** And at the gym, we used to have three.

**[46:32]** We used to have three engine classes a week.

**[46:34]** So they would follow the three day program and those people whooped

**[46:37]** everyone's ass and CrossFit.

**[46:39]** And part of it is just because again, like, like they're, you know, you're

**[46:42]** in and you're doing that work and it's very steady and it's well-paced, but

**[46:46]** Chris is also very good at teaching the pacing

**[46:48]** and explaining the different styles of workouts

**[46:50]** and building progressions into it.

**[46:52]** And that, you know, just as a coach and a programmer

**[46:54]** inspires me to try to bring the same thing over here.

**[46:58]** So there are points in the year where you might wonder

**[47:02]** why we're still doing three to five days a week

**[47:04]** of mandatory bitch work.

**[47:05]** And I can tell you right now that I still have my athletes

**[47:09]** that are really good at bitch work do that.

**[47:10]** Like unless there's a really explicit reason not to,

**[47:13]** it just moves the needle.

**[47:14]** I think too many coaches and programmers do the like,

**[47:17]** well, my athlete's good at this,

**[47:18]** so we don't really do it all that often anymore.

**[47:21]** And then they like take seventh instead of first.

**[47:23]** And it's like, that's a lot of points.

**[47:26]** So even if you're good at bitch work,

**[47:28]** it's just the stimulus is incredible.

**[47:29]** Oh, we'll just quickly go down through here.

**[47:32]** Our zone two bias for Hatchet is the C2 bike.

**[47:35]** So you will do the Misfit athletics threshold tests.

**[47:38]** Let's be real clear on this.

**[47:40]** That's a 40 minute AMRAP.

**[47:41]** That's hard as you can go for 40 minutes.

**[47:43]** Should it be paced?

**[47:45]** Yeah, 40 minutes long, right?

**[47:46]** It's really, really long.

**[47:49]** But people are like, what should my heart rate zone be?

**[47:52]** Nah, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, right?

**[47:54]** If you're the type of athlete that gets good athlete IQ

**[47:56]** feedback of like, oops, 172 beats per minute

**[48:00]** and minute four, that was a bad idea.

**[48:02]** But that can also be like, hey, why don't you stop,

**[48:04]** maybe stop holding your breath.

**[48:05]** And that's usually not very helpful

**[48:07]** or your RPMs are off or something like that.

**[48:09]** But just being very clear here, that is an AMRAP.

**[48:12]** That is a true AMRAP.

**[48:13]** It just, it's hard to pace because it's long.

**[48:16]** I personally, when I do the 40 minute tests,

**[48:19]** I come up with what I think is the right wattage

**[48:22]** or RPMs to hold, but I break it up into four

**[48:25]** 10 minute sections in my head.

**[48:27]** No matter what, unless it's like egregiously slow or fast,

**[48:30]** I mean, I don't know what the hell I'm doing

**[48:32]** and I should probably be fired if that's the case.

**[48:34]** For those first 10 minutes, I will hold

**[48:36]** what I set out to hold.

**[48:37]** And then I will say, hmm, yeah, that's right.

**[48:41]** That's pretty close or it's a little slower.

**[48:42]** It's a little fast and I will adjust up or down an RPM or two X amount of watts,

**[48:47]** that kind of thing and move on and sort of make my way through that.

**[48:50]** So it helps me personally mentally to do that.

**[48:53]** It's like four 10 minute workouts.

**[48:55]** And of course it'd be nice to jump off the bike seat and walk around for a little

**[48:58]** bit in between those 10 minutes and you don't get to, but I don't know why it

**[49:01]** helps me mentally, but it does.

**[49:03]** So hatchet is the C2 bike and pro is the echo bike.

**[49:06]** Those are going to be your mandatory weekly zone two pieces

**[49:09]** over the course of the phase.

**[49:10]** The aerobic bias for Hatchet is going to be CrossFit.

**[49:14]** It is based on the progression of Spiders on Mars.

**[49:17]** Spiders on Mars is a real fun workout.

**[49:23]** And I will say, let me make sure that this is actually true.

**[49:27]** I have a third version of it this year.

**[49:30]** So we get some people who don't get through all the double unders

**[49:34]** or don't get all the way through the row before the double unders.

**[49:38]** If this is a huge weakness and you're an open athlete, I have a third version here.
