---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381"
published: 2025-12-31
episode_number: "381"
chunk_index: 6
chunk_start: "49:42"
chunk_end: "59:38"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Zone 2", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381 - Chunk 6

Episode: [Open Prep: 2026 Programming Continues into Phase 3 - E.381](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[49:42]** So there's the pro version, there's the hatchet version, and then now there's an open athlete

**[49:47]** version. And I really do want people to, like, the goal for an open athlete, top tier open athlete,

**[49:54]** would get 60-50 calorie row at the end. It's adding another segment. That's kind of the

**[50:00]** intention there. So just something to keep in mind there. And then over the course of the

**[50:05]** the weeks you're going to be rowing wall balls, double unders, burpee box jump overs, all

**[50:08]** that good stuff in the eight to 12 to 15 minute time range.

**[50:13]** Yeah.

**[50:14]** Did throw you guys a bone.

**[50:16]** I really did try to make most of those workouts in the progression change up enough while

**[50:22]** you're doing the workout that it's probably a lot easier mentally than just rowing for

**[50:26]** 15 minutes.

**[50:27]** Yeah, I think that's a really good one too to really kind of kick off some athlete IQ

**[50:31]** work.

**[50:32]** first movements 50 burpee box jump overs.

**[50:35]** Okay, you're gonna do a rep every five seconds.

**[50:38]** How long is that gonna take you?

**[50:39]** Do the math, you know?

**[50:40]** So kind of calculating all that out

**[50:42]** and then figuring out a little bit of transition time

**[50:45]** can give you an idea of if you'll get to the max cal row

**[50:48]** or how much time you'll have there.

**[50:50]** So if you can do that prior to even hitting

**[50:53]** that kind of workout, that will help you decide

**[50:56]** if the hatchet version is appropriate

**[50:58]** or if the open style version,

**[51:00]** modified version is appropriate.

**[51:01]** So something to think about going into that one.

**[51:04]** I want to call out Kyle Moline.

**[51:06]** He broke the hatchet version, and then the pro version broke him.

**[51:10]** So I'm just interested to see what happens this time,

**[51:13]** whether he's just going to annihilate the hatchet version

**[51:15]** again, which probably hurts.

**[51:17]** I don't know, maybe more.

**[51:18]** He'll have to let me know.

**[51:19]** Or I'm going to see if he can get back to the row on the pro

**[51:23]** version.

**[51:23]** Pro aerobic bias is rowing, surprise, surprise.

**[51:27]** Anaerobic bias, this is going to be your cube tests.

**[51:30]** So you're four minutes on, four minutes off for four rounds.

**[51:35]** Where's your output at?

**[51:37]** Anaerobic bias is hatchet.

**[51:38]** We've been following this progression year long.

**[51:40]** We started with zone two, then we went to aerobic.

**[51:43]** Now we're at anaerobic.

**[51:45]** We are just really rounding out our energy systems

**[51:48]** and getting ourselves to the point now

**[51:49]** where we're gonna be going harder in these workouts

**[51:52]** than we would go in almost any CrossFit workout.

**[51:55]** And that can do one of two things.

**[51:57]** it can make it so that Paige and I are rowing

**[52:00]** at the same pace and then we get off the rower

**[52:02]** and she's 20 beats per minute lower than me

**[52:05]** because oftentimes there's a pace in an open workout

**[52:08]** or a quarter finals workout that you need

**[52:10]** to be able to row at to sort of be on the leaderboard

**[52:14]** where you wanna be.

**[52:15]** But what happens outside of that is very different

**[52:18]** for different fleets, right?

**[52:19]** So I'm not always telling an athlete

**[52:20]** if they're really good at rowing,

**[52:22]** hey, they're gonna be at like an 1100,

**[52:23]** why don't you go to the 1200?

**[52:24]** It's like, why don't you go at an 1100

**[52:26]** and laugh at them when you get off and go crush the other movements and then just show

**[52:29]** back up there.

**[52:30]** So when we are overreaching, we are raising that ceiling and it could be to go actually

**[52:36]** go faster in a workout, which is often appropriate, or to go at the same pace as somebody else

**[52:41]** and then be able to really double and triple down on the rest of the transitions, unbroken

**[52:45]** movements, all that good stuff.

**[52:47]** Yeah.

**[52:48]** McKenna and I have talked about rowing and like McKenna is a very strong rower.

**[52:51]** and me in a 20-minute AMRAP where the row is recovery for her and the row is pushing

**[52:56]** for me, it changes the stimulus of the workout. So if you can become that person that's like,

**[53:03]** oh, I could hold 1,100 and this is recovery, but also helping me stay consistently on pace

**[53:09]** with where I need to be, it's like, yeah, you're a step ahead there. So even building

**[53:14]** on your strengths with the bitch work, the monostructural stuff, keep doing that. Keep

**[53:19]** building on your strengths.

**[53:21]** That is one way to really demoralize another human that you're working out with because like you see the videos of oftentimes

**[53:27]** I get videos of training partners together and

**[53:30]** Let's say it's like Ro Wahl walk and they both get off the rower at the same time and one of them's doing those like

**[53:35]** It almost looks like a fucking burpee that they're slamming themselves against the wall and the other person's like no

**[53:40]** I am in deep trouble right now

**[53:42]** So that's kind of how that looks at play on the pro side

**[53:45]** It's gonna be running if you are signed up for pro and you are following that season-long progression of running

**[53:51]** It is important to note that I would want you to either be all on the runner or all not on the runner

**[53:56]** It's very hard to convert those two things and I think a lot of people have to be on the runner this time of year

**[54:02]** That said there is a version of the cube test. That's just for one case

**[54:06]** So you do four by one k run and then you rest four minutes in between

**[54:10]** And it's more about getting those splits to come down to pace those really well that sort of thing

**[54:15]** So if you don't have a runner you can still do that last but not least

**[54:18]** At this point in the year, if you're going to be doing power output work, it should be

**[54:22]** because you need it either on a specific day because you're not good at sending it on a

**[54:27]** rower or a ski erg, or in this instance, every other week you're going to see because it's

**[54:33]** the power output bias on all programs, the echo bike.

**[54:36]** Again, non-mandatory on all programs because this is a weakness that is very specific to

**[54:42]** certain people.

**[54:43]** The cool thing here is if you're on the fence, what a stimulus bomb this is.

**[54:48]** I did my first power output workout at elevation

**[54:53]** and I did 29 calories in 30 seconds by accident

**[54:57]** in the first round.

**[54:59]** And I, like I have never, whatever that,

**[55:02]** whatever that low 20s, like maybe 23,

**[55:05]** something like that, somewhere in that room.

**[55:06]** But like I was laughing when I got done

**[55:10]** because I had never felt like that in my entire life.

**[55:13]** I was like, what the hell just happened to me?

**[55:16]** Like, cause it didn't feel hard.

**[55:18]** Like when you are, when that's your bread and butter,

**[55:21]** like, like for, again, just for one,

**[55:23]** bread and butter for one.

**[55:24]** Like I probably could have done,

**[55:26]** I feel like I could, I don't know if I could get 40

**[55:28]** in 30 seconds if I went all out, but I could get close.

**[55:32]** But it was a very bad idea for three by 30.

**[55:35]** I was in very rough shape for the last one for sure.

**[55:38]** So again, stimulus bomb kind of thing that, you know,

**[55:41]** you know, you did some work.

**[55:42]** Anything to add on the bitch work stuff page

**[55:45]** before we move on to sports specific.

**[55:47]** But at some point, all of them are uncomfortable.

**[55:51]** So just keep that in mind of like,

**[55:53]** you guys are pushing intensity.

**[55:54]** You're trying to find adaptation here.

**[55:57]** There shouldn't be anything that's like a breeze.

**[55:59]** And then kind of the second thing I, go ahead.

**[56:02]** No, go ahead, keep going.

**[56:03]** I was gonna change gears a little bit there.

**[56:06]** So what Paige is talking about is like so important here.

**[56:11]** First gear, if it's a mandatory piece,

**[56:15]** is Hamrap 15 minutes times two, rest one minute.

**[56:19]** I want you to be 100% positive that you can hold

**[56:23]** your average pace for all 30 minutes of work,

**[56:27]** but I want it right there.

**[56:28]** Like that's, I want the stimulus to be right there.

**[56:31]** If you're getting up towards seventh or eighth gear

**[56:33]** and you wanna play around a little bit

**[56:35]** and see if you can actually hold, you know,

**[56:37]** a 135 or something like that, that's totally fine.

**[56:40]** There's no place for that in the first gear,

**[56:43]** second gear, third gear stuff,

**[56:44]** just because it's not gonna work.

**[56:45]** It's not gonna happen.

**[56:46]** You're teaching your body to go slower.

**[56:49]** We want you to go to the same speed

**[56:50]** and have it hurt a little bit more

**[56:52]** every minute of the entire workout.

**[56:54]** And by the end, you're like,

**[56:55]** if I had to do a few more minutes of this,

**[56:57]** sayonora, like, no bueno, not good.

**[56:59]** So really important to know, again,

**[57:02]** it is very aerobic, as honestly all of this stuff is,

**[57:05]** aside from the power output work,

**[57:06]** but it's not gonna be in there if it's supposed to be easy,

**[57:09]** unless it says zone two next to it.

**[57:11]** Right.

**[57:12]** Kind of the second thing in this is more some experience

**[57:14]** with some remote athletes and I won't name names,

**[57:17]** but you guys will probably, you know,

**[57:19]** you'll know if this hits home, like the power output,

**[57:23]** if you are cherry picking it and you know,

**[57:26]** you know you should probably do it,

**[57:28]** do it this phase and kind of, you know,

**[57:31]** get yourself used to that, like get uncomfortable with that.

**[57:34]** You know, make that choice of like,

**[57:36]** I'm not gonna take the easy way out.

**[57:38]** Like if it's in my sheet, I'm going to hit it.

**[57:40]** Or if again, I'm thinking that I'm not going to do that.

**[57:44]** I'm going to skip all those.

**[57:45]** Like that's kind of a good reason to try it if you haven't done them yet, especially.

**[57:50]** So, you know, not to, not to really kind of point fingers, but just a little bit.

**[57:54]** I mean, yeah, I understand.

**[57:57]** Okay.

**[57:57]** Sports specific.

**[57:58]** Last but definitely not least, probably the most important here.

**[58:01]** We have a Metcon skill and an interval and skill bias each phase.

**[58:07]** And what we've done this year to really make sure that we're moving the needle is instead of alternating weeks of those things,

**[58:14]** those are all going to be within the same week.

**[58:16]** And there are ways for us to make sure that that's actually appropriate that I will address.

**[58:20]** So Metcon and skill for all programs is going to be deadlift wallwalk.

**[58:25]** On the pro program, Paige has written you just a lovely skill progression where you end with some pretty hefty sets.

**[58:34]** On the hatchet side, I converted those to AMRAPs.

**[58:37]** And I'm basically making sure that if you are good at wall walks and we want to push the moment,

**[58:42]** that you can actually get to those pro numbers in hatchet.

**[58:46]** Like, I like wall walks, but I want to move the needle on them.

**[58:49]** I want to make them even easier.

**[58:50]** So that's what that looks like.

**[58:52]** So you're going to have an AMRAP or you're going to be able to personalize

**[58:55]** the progression in skill for yourself, basically by going in and being like,

**[59:00]** Okay, this week I got six per AMRAP and next week I'm supposed to get seven and then I'm supposed

**[59:06]** to get eight and then I'm supposed to get nine. And as the weeks go on, you might jump more than

**[59:10]** one single rep, but we're making sure that that is appropriate for everybody. And then we made sure

**[59:16]** when necessary to put time caps in the deadlift wall walk workouts, because we want you to be

**[59:21]** able to work through them. And we do need to be able to work through them in sets of, you know,

**[59:26]** two or three all the way up to maybe like a set of 10 or something like that, even on the hatchet

**[59:30]** program. But keep in mind, we don't want anyone doing wall walks for 40 minutes. That's never

**[59:37]** going to be necessary.
