---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385"
published: 2026-01-28
episode_number: "385"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits. All right, you can't take a bunch of Misfits. You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Making a bunch of Misfits over at Sennheiser.

**[00:17]** Good morning, Misfits. You were tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast on today's show.

**[00:22]** We got a little open preview coming. We've had some things happening within the Misfit Athletics

**[00:28]** program that really made me feel like we should do a full episode dedicated to the open, dedicated to

**[00:34]** what you can expect out of it, how to do well in it, why it matters, regardless of who you are,

**[00:39]** as opposed to just talking through the actual programming that we're doing itself, like we

**[00:44]** did a few weeks ago with Open Prep. So we're going to get into all of that stuff. As usual,

**[00:49]** we will do housekeeping pretty quickly here. There are, I don't know, a certain number of

**[00:55]** of ways that you can support this podcast. I forgot how many it is, but the main one

**[00:59]** is by purchasing our programming. Whether you're looking for individual programming

**[01:03]** or affiliate programming, you can find the link in bio on our Instagram. That gives

**[01:07]** you access to all of those things. And there are free trials associated with all of those.

**[01:11]** You can also head to sharpentheaxco.com and buy yourself some misfit gear. If you haven't

**[01:16]** signed up for camp, this podcast drops like 72 hours prior to camp getting started. You

**[01:23]** still can get signed up. Hopefully you live in the greater Boulder, Colorado area, or

**[01:30]** you have the kind of life where you can just snap your fingers and decide to fly to Colorado

**[01:34]** last minute. But I'm super excited about camp and you can find the ticket sales in the Lincoln

**[01:39]** Bio. Some of you are just procrastinators. There's ticket sales still coming in and it's

**[01:43]** like thank you for that. It makes it really easy for us to do our staff and all that.

**[01:50]** joking. Last but not least, this episode of the podcast, like the rest of them, is brought

**[01:54]** to you by Gorilla Mind. You can go to GorillaMind.com forward slash misfit or just use the code

**[01:59]** word misfit at checkout. I am, I have a three day work week. Now you would think camp would

**[02:04]** mean I have a six or seven day work week, but what I mean by that is I have to fit six

**[02:08]** or seven days worth of work into three days and my wife is out of town. So the product

**[02:13]** of the week is the Gorilla Mind energy drink. If you're watching on YouTube, there's one

**[02:18]** right there. That's actually my favorite flavor, the white frost. Yeah, it's not just an energy

**[02:25]** drink. It's packed with nootropics. I drink it before basically every podcast. I feel

**[02:31]** like I have really good word recall. And yeah, I'm a big fan. I've seen Paige drinking them

**[02:37]** pretty regularly in the background.

**[02:41]** You know who I just saw recently drinking one? I saw Hiller. Yeah, had it during one

**[02:46]** of his sit downs. I was in class. I was like, okay.

**[02:48]** I almost commented, used code word misfit.

**[02:49]** You should.

**[02:52]** Yeah, right? Yeah, and that's the new flavor everybody's freaking out about. They did like,

**[02:56]** I don't think they're supposed to say that it's Swedish fish, but it's red gummy fish.

**[02:59]** And I have the pre-workout, the non-STEM pre-workout and that, that tastes really good. So,

**[03:05]** haven't had the energy drink yet because I have probably 10 cases in my closet.

**[03:10]** And whenever they do a sale and we can stack the code on, I'm in there. And the cool thing is,

**[03:15]** Because if you start buying from them, they're really good about marketing.

**[03:20]** You get emails and texts and stuff like that when stuff goes on sale, which is pretty regularly.

**[03:24]** You can just stamp that code on top of it.

**[03:28]** All right.

**[03:29]** I kind of already did it, but I'm going to do it again anyways.

**[03:31]** Shout out of the week.

**[03:33]** It's different for me now.

**[03:34]** The shout out of the week on my end is the campers, the people that are signed up for

**[03:38]** camp.

**[03:39]** I am sequestered to this office that you see me in basically in all of the content.

**[03:44]** I don't have in-person coworkers anymore.

**[03:48]** When my son comes in here,

**[03:49]** he just wants to play with my Lego Lewis Hamilton car,

**[03:53]** which he usually breaks pretty quickly.

**[03:55]** And I have to put back together.

**[03:56]** He also takes the football down and throws that around,

**[03:58]** tries to throw it at my camera and stuff.

**[04:00]** So I just, I need camp more now than ever, right?

**[04:06]** I gotta go, like I talk about it,

**[04:09]** but I really, really, really mean it.

**[04:11]** That's why I say it over and over.

**[04:13]** there's something special about being in a room

**[04:16]** with your people for a whole weekend.

**[04:18]** It's very motivating for coaches,

**[04:20]** it's motivating for athletes,

**[04:22]** it's motivating for fans of the sport

**[04:24]** just to get like a look at what we're up to and what we do.

**[04:28]** And I think it's really fun to be able

**[04:30]** to bring our personalities to camp,

**[04:33]** which could be cursing maybe a little bit more

**[04:36]** than we're supposed to,

**[04:37]** but there's a level of authenticity that we bring

**[04:39]** that I think keeps things light

**[04:41]** because we go really deep into the nerdy side

**[04:44]** and the nitty-gritty of movement and execution

**[04:47]** and all of that stuff.

**[04:48]** So I'm just really excited to see everybody.

**[04:51]** And I'm digging my new life here in Colorado,

**[04:54]** but I gotta get out and see my people.

**[04:57]** So shout out of the week, campers.

**[04:59]** It's almost time for you to be on the competition floor too.

**[05:02]** You got my kind of competing in a couple of weeks.

**[05:04]** So you're kind of hitting all areas there.

**[05:08]** Yes, very true.

**[05:08]** I'm excited to put my coaches hat on at camp.

**[05:11]** I typically go and I participate, but this year I get to be more behind the scenes, which

**[05:16]** I'm very excited to learn from you and from Hunter and Caroline.

**[05:19]** You guys have been doing camp quite a bit now, so I'm really excited about that.

**[05:24]** Yeah, me too.

**[05:25]** I'm going to give a shout out to a bunch of the new members in Telegram.

**[05:29]** This is just like through, yeah, just through like the back half of January.

**[05:34]** We've got Jess Webb, Sergio Mendoza, Christine Ortega, Hunter Stewart, Jason Payne, Huseyin,

**[05:41]** I don't know how to pronounce your last name so I'm not going to try, Dylan Thomas, Art

**[05:46]** Tang, and Abby Gibbs, which I'm pretty sure Abby Gibbs is a long time misbefourer.

**[05:51]** It is fun to see the people that you know finally get into the group.

**[05:55]** There's still the holdouts on Fitter that cracks me up, those people.

**[05:59]** Because they'll message me on Fitter and I'll be like, this would be a great topic of conversation.

**[06:04]** on Telegram crickets.

**[06:06]** So get your butts in Telegram.

**[06:08]** They're like a 6 AM crew and an affiliate.

**[06:11]** Like, they're just their own breed.

**[06:12]** Exactly.

**[06:12]** It's true.

**[06:13]** Yeah.

**[06:14]** And they're always messaging us in the middle of the night

**[06:16]** because they live on the other side of the world.

**[06:18]** And then they're like, where the hell are you guys?

**[06:20]** And it's like, dude, it's 3 AM.

**[06:24]** So yeah, shout out to those guys.

**[06:26]** Yeah.

**[06:27]** It's been, I don't know, I feel annoying when I make a push

**[06:30]** for something like that.

**[06:31]** And I keep doing it over and over.

**[06:32]** but I think it's been working recently.

**[06:35]** And I do believe that people will get better results

**[06:40]** and stick around longer and work through those shitty times

**[06:43]** when they don't want to if they're part of a community.

**[06:44]** So I do believe that it is like a,

**[06:47]** it should be like a mandatory add-on.

**[06:50]** Like there should be another column in the programming sheet

**[06:52]** that says get into Telegram and like talk to people about this.

**[06:56]** Yeah.

**[06:56]** So it's been really good.

**[06:58]** All right, read, listen, watch.

**[06:59]** You wanna go first? You want me to go first?

**[07:01]** Sure, I'll go first. My read is a quote I saw, it's actually like maybe two weeks ago now,

**[07:06]** but I thought it would be very relevant. Let me just increase this a little bit. It says,

**[07:12]** if you want to get warm, you must stand near the fire. If you want to be wet, you must get into

**[07:16]** the water. If you want joy, power, peace, eternal life, you must get close to or even into the thing

**[07:22]** that has them. You don't get results by wanting them, you get results by placing yourself in the

**[07:27]** environment where those results are inevitable. I'm just like, you can't find anything a little

**[07:33]** more badass than that for what we're about to dip our toes into with the season starting.

**[07:38]** Yeah, I totally agree.

**[07:40]** Let's see, my listen, I actually had one of my athletes recommend,

**[07:45]** fellas, this might not be as fun for you, but it's actually a podcast with Mel Robbins and

**[07:51]** Dr. Stacy Sims on menopause.

**[07:55]** But what I really liked about it was that, again,

**[08:00]** it was also for men and for the women in their lives,

**[08:03]** and how can they be more educated on it.

**[08:06]** And I just, it was very insightful,

**[08:08]** very educational, with also just more of a conversational feel.

**[08:12]** So that's why I really liked it.

**[08:14]** Mel Robbins, it's pretty easy to listen to in my mind.

**[08:18]** Yeah.

**[08:18]** I like her.

**[08:19]** So again, very educational, recommend that.

**[08:22]** And then my watch, I've been watching the following

**[08:25]** on Netflix, this is like an older, I wanna say,

**[08:29]** older show.

**[08:30]** It's a following.

**[08:31]** Yeah, it's about a serial killer.

**[08:32]** I feel like I know what that is.

**[08:34]** It's about a serial killer who basically bases.

**[08:38]** Oh, is it Kevin Bacon?

**[08:39]** Yeah.

**[08:40]** He's great.

**[08:41]** Yeah, yeah, yeah.

**[08:42]** He's easy to know.

**[08:43]** Tremors, right?

**[08:44]** Oh, yeah, we're aging ourselves now.

**[08:46]** We are aging ourselves now.

**[08:50]** Back when almost all movies were bad, so you had to like bad movies.

**[08:53]** You did.

**[08:54]** True, true, true, true.

**[08:56]** So yeah, those are my three.

**[08:58]** The followings have been pretty good.

**[09:00]** I did watch it, not all the way through a while ago, so I figured I would go back to

**[09:04]** it.

**[09:05]** My read is I was going to pick a specific book, but honestly, any book by David Sedaris,

**[09:13]** I have one behind me called Happy Go Lucky.

**[09:16]** I have all of his books.

**[09:18]** And the cool thing is they are like short essays

**[09:22]** about his life basically.

**[09:23]** And he's just like hilarious, incredible writer.

**[09:27]** I think he kind of fits into a lot of different categories.

**[09:30]** And when I was going through this with everything,

**[09:33]** all the crazy stuff that's going on in the world right now

**[09:36]** is like people should put their phones down

**[09:38]** and go buy a David Sedaris book

**[09:40]** and laugh and go to sleep with a peaceful head.

**[09:43]** Listen, this one's interesting.

**[09:44]** So there is a guy named James Smith

**[09:47]** who is like online trainer, entrepreneur kind of guy.

**[09:52]** He does a lot of content about content,

**[09:55]** but he has a podcast called The Problem With,

**[09:58]** and it kind of does a little bit
