---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385"
published: 2026-01-28
episode_number: "385"
chunk_index: 4
chunk_start: "29:54"
chunk_end: "39:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385 - Chunk 4

Episode: [The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[29:54]** down with the deadlifts, which is just one of those workouts I think that messed with

**[29:58]** people because they didn't know what they were getting.

**[30:00]** It was disguised as not the craziest deadlift workout.

**[30:04]** And then turns out for a lot of people, even really good athletes, it was pretty gnarly.

**[30:09]** But I just think through those movements that we're looking at here, we're looking at the

**[30:13]** snatch and the dumbbell snatch and it's like as we pass the knee and come down, is that butt

**[30:18]** dropping? Are we getting into a position where you can drive with your legs or is it bend and snap?

**[30:24]** Is it really that sort of hinging RDL and you're going to get yourself into positions where you

**[30:29]** can't turn your erectors on at all so your spine is doing things. So not only are you not being

**[30:37]** efficient because of how incredibly powerful your legs are in that kind of quarter squat,

**[30:42]** stand up to knee extension realm, you're also compromising basically your entire body. Like,

**[30:48]** once you start to go vertebrae by vertebrae of telling your body, like, we're in the danger zone,

**[30:54]** and we get into muscle spasms and things like that, it's not good.

**[30:58]** Yeah, like, the moment that back starts firing up and is burning, it's like your legs are shutting

**[31:04]** off too. So, you know, really that inefficient movement is a big reason that that score is going

**[31:11]** drop off from what you think it could be if you're moving well.

**[31:15]** And this is one of those things where I'm reminded of going back to batting practice

**[31:20]** in Little League and we would always want to do the Mark McGuire swing or the Kanger

**[31:25]** Free Junior swing and our coaches would be like, for the love of God, you're nine years old and you

**[31:31]** suck at baseball. If you could stop that, it'd be amazing. So we see these examples of top athletes

**[31:39]** doing some movements and it's like you do not understand what it is like to have that kind of

**[31:46]** engine and they are also leaving things on the table. They came in 14th in the world and that is

**[31:53]** amazing and super cool but seconds better, you know? So that's why our shining examples in the

**[32:01]** sport like just move so incredibly well. It's like they're putting all of these ideas together.

**[32:08]** And then last but not least, every single year, overhead mobility and stability is going to be tested.

**[32:16]** The handstand pressing is interesting, especially when it comes to strict trying to devil's advocate myself.

**[32:22]** But basically, if you have a really good overhead mobility and shoulder stability, you are going to do incredibly well compared to people with the same level of GPP as you in law walks, handstand walking, handstand pushups.

**[32:37]** When you watch gymnasts move or people that are good at moving,

**[32:42]** their torso angle and their head and their neck just don't change at all.

**[32:47]** They're making the movement easier on themselves.

**[32:50]** And they're developing their capacity because the movement is easier.

**[32:54]** If you do, every time you do your misfit sets of strict handstand push-ups,

**[32:58]** you kick up and you sort of banana back and head to the wall

**[33:03]** and then head way back through your way to five or six handstand pushups. And I kick up and do 15

**[33:11]** really quickly. Not only can I do 15 and you can do six or seven, think about that over the course

**[33:18]** of a year and how many more reps I get and you just create this gap. And the very first time that

**[33:23]** I noticed that was when they would follow Froning around and he would be doing workouts with 135

**[33:28]** thrusters. And it's like, oh my god, no one puts more than 95 or less than 95 on the bar like ever,

**[33:36]** right? How much fitter is that guy getting when he's doing the same workout as you with 135,

**[33:42]** right? Yeah. Like he's touching, going 155 power snatch, things like that. So like, when you allow

**[33:48]** for that kind of gap to be there, it used to be in programming and hopefully not so much now,

**[33:52]** regardless of whose program you follow. But like, man, when you think about efficiency

**[33:58]** in gymnastics in general, and especially when you're getting upside down, how big is that

**[34:02]** gap getting if you're just continuing to do it wrong instead of finally one off season

**[34:07]** being like, I'm just going to slide up and down through space. And I'm going to hate

**[34:11]** that I did three the first time, and then I'm going to love the first time that I do

**[34:15]** 10. And it's like, that's how that movement is supposed to go.

**[34:19]** Yeah.

**[34:20]** Yeah.

**[34:21]** I mean, clear example is, I mean, watch Danielle Brandon do that World Fitness Project workout

**[34:25]** at Tour Stop 2 with the handstand walk and the pirouettes.

**[34:29]** Just look at her upside down.

**[34:30]** You if she was-

**[34:31]** Hand her handstand pushups in those workouts.

**[34:33]** Yeah.

**[34:34]** Yeah.

**[34:35]** If you freeze her in time, it's like, and you flip that upside and you flip it back to

**[34:38]** right side up, she looks the same.

**[34:40]** She's so stacked and it's just like, again, she just has that organization foundation

**[34:45]** underneath her.

**[34:46]** Yep. So you got to be fit, got to have grip strength and good hollow arch mechanics through

**[34:53]** all of your pulling gymnastics. I think a big focus is you got to know how to use your

**[34:57]** legs and be efficient in pulling from the floor with a barbell, deadlift, power snatch,

**[35:03]** dumbbell snatch, power clean. We're going to see more of that than going overhead with

**[35:09]** the barbell or a bench press or something to that extent, and then overhead mobility

**[35:14]** instability, can you, you have to have access to positions to get into them to start. And

**[35:20]** we see, I mean, that's pretty close to the biggest issue that we see with mobility that

**[35:25]** can really just stop someone dead in their tracks. Some people have long femurs or struggle

**[35:30]** to get into good squat positioning and stuff like that, but can be compensated for, I think,

**[35:35]** a little bit easier than, I, everything turns off muscularly when I'm upside down because

**[35:40]** I'm in a compromised position.

**[35:43]** So get good at those four things.

**[35:45]** That's the rest.

**[35:46]** That's the end of the episode.

**[35:47]** Congratulations.

**[35:48]** You did it.

**[35:49]** I'm joking.

**[35:50]** All right.

**[35:51]** Style of workout.

**[35:52]** What did we see?

**[35:53]** I switched this list to just 2021 to 2025 because the numbers would be skewed in the years that

**[36:01]** had more workouts.

**[36:02]** So like this data doesn't, I've done all of it all the way back and it doesn't change

**[36:07]** a ton, but it changes enough where like, I think they're how many workouts there are,

**[36:13]** how long the workouts are, how many movements, how many implements, I think they've listened

**[36:17]** and become significantly more friendly to affiliates than they used to be. So that's

**[36:22]** why this list is based on that.

**[36:24]** Let's talk about time domains. 17% of the workouts are short. A lot of them, you know,

**[36:29]** in the five-ish minute range on that list, but that would be, you know, eight minutes

**[36:35]** or less, roughly, for most people, 5% of the workouts over those five years are medium

**[36:39]** duration. And there's a...

**[36:41]** Bingo.

**[36:42]** Yeah, yuck. And we'll talk about how... What to think about that, how to get better, etc.

**[36:48]** Six percent of them are long. And they've definitely changed over the years to not,

**[36:53]** again, bombard, I think, affiliates and judges and dealing with all of that at the open and

**[36:59]** quarterfinals level in terms of how often... Because quarterfinals will do another episode

**[37:04]** for this, but quarterfinals, most of the workouts are short.

**[37:06]** And they've kind of gone away from the super long ones,

**[37:09]** which is interesting, but like another side tangent,

**[37:12]** we talked about it when we talked about the games

**[37:15]** programming, there are certain workouts

**[37:17]** where you're going to get the same,

**[37:19]** if you're just watching someone do a 20 minute AMRAP,

**[37:22]** like the 14 minute one is going to be really similar in terms

**[37:26]** of who finishes when.

**[37:27]** So like, are we going to force this issue here?

**[37:31]** So I think there's kind of a trimming of the fat.

**[37:33]** and a lot of these situations. So 6% long and then 12% being lifts. And to be clear,

**[37:40]** that's only two. That's only two lifts. There's been one long workout in those five years,

**[37:45]** just kind of crazy to think of.

**[37:47]** That is kind of crazy to think about.

**[37:50]** We have 67% of the workouts are timed. So they used to be almost all AMRAPs back in

**[37:59]** the day, right?

**[38:00]** Yeah. Yep.

**[38:01]** And that has switched in a really big way.

**[38:04]** So 33% are AMRAPs, 3% couplets, 53% triplets.

**[38:09]** I think a lot of that is like, hey, we got three workouts.

**[38:11]** So we got to get some movements in here.

**[38:14]** And then 7% being chippers.

**[38:16]** What I will say about the couplets and triplets

**[38:19]** is that what we internally refer to as movement family

**[38:23]** chippers are part of those numbers.

**[38:26]** So if there's basically two movement patterns,

**[38:29]** But one of them changes from total bar to pull up to Chester bar or something like that.

**[38:33]** We're still going to call that a couplet.

**[38:35]** A lot of times executed in that same way.

**[38:38]** And then the same thing for triplets.

**[38:40]** There have been a bunch of triplets that have that like we're progressing from, you know,

**[38:45]** the wall walk or the handstand walk or whatever.

**[38:48]** So those are included.

**[38:49]** So if you're wondering why there aren't more chippers in there, that's why for people that

**[38:53]** don't follow the programming, I'll do some quick definite definitions.

**[38:56]** We have cardio stimulus, muscle endurance stimulus, gas stimulus.

**[39:00]** So we have the cardio stimulus, which is basically like the rounds can be a sort of similar pacing.

**[39:07]** We talk a lot about merry-go-round workouts.

**[39:09]** There's typically one movement in them, like a row, a burpee, a box jump over, something

**[39:15]** like that, where you get to choose the pace.

**[39:17]** Like you have a different pace than other people, whereas a lot of CrossFit movements,

**[39:20]** if you're doing them, take a similar amount of time as other people.

**[39:25]** Muscle endurance is going to be workouts where the combination of movements makes it so that

**[39:29]** you cannot continue doing those movements, or the number of reps you have to do at a

**[39:33]** time are so high that it's actually the muscle endurance.

**[39:37]** You know, my grip burns, my legs burn, I can't do these anymore sort of a thing.

**[39:41]** And then gas stimulus would be kind of the same idea as muscle endurance in those two

**[39:46]** instances, but it's your lungs that are just like, we got to break this up, because if

**[39:50]** we don't, we're going to run out of gas.
