---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385"
published: 2026-01-28
episode_number: "385"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:53"
chunk_end: "49:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|The Open is Coming: What to Expect, How to Execute, and Why it Matters - E.385]]

## Transcript

**[39:53]** So 20% of the workouts, cardio stimulus, 40% muscle endurance, 20% gas stimulus, and then

**[40:02]** 20% remaining are kind of ambiguous in terms of whether they're muscle or gas.

**[40:09]** And that has to do with your fitness level, basically, I would say muscle endurance for

**[40:12]** general population.

**[40:14]** So you're all the way up at 60%.

**[40:16]** And then gas stimulus, if you're really fit and can kind of push through those movements,

**[40:22]** which would make it more even with the muscle endurance.

**[40:26]** And I'll ask the question again,

**[40:28]** so you see the short, medium, long lifts,

**[40:31]** what's timed, what's a couplet,

**[40:33]** what style of workouts there are,

**[40:35]** what pops into your head when you look at that information?

**[40:38]** Can be as an athlete, as a coach, whatever.

**[40:41]** Like what do you see when you look at that?

**[40:43]** I mean, mostly when I think of like

**[40:44]** those medium duration workouts,

**[40:46]** I think of like, all right,

**[40:47]** I have to pick a pace on this workout

**[40:49]** that I can defend throughout the entire duration of it.

**[40:53]** Like if I go out too hot, I'm gonna wreck myself early.

**[40:57]** Even when it comes to muscle endurance,

**[40:59]** it's like there has to be intention behind,

**[41:02]** you know, how am I breaking it up, things like that.

**[41:04]** Like I have to be able to defend the pace that I'm choosing

**[41:08]** and be very intentional with it.

**[41:11]** So for me, I look at it in two different ways.

**[41:14]** It's like as a programmer, am I programming enough things

**[41:17]** that would actually get somebody better?

**[41:19]** and am I programming enough things

**[41:21]** and this would be less often where people can practice?

**[41:24]** Because those are two really very different things.

**[41:29]** To get good at medium duration workouts,

**[41:32]** you need to go short and go way harder

**[41:36]** than you would in a medium workout

**[41:37]** and you need to go long and get as close as you can

**[41:40]** to how hard that you would go, but log more reps.

**[41:43]** You're basically really pushing the neurological side

**[41:48]** and the energy system side on the short end.

**[41:52]** And then on the long end, of course,

**[41:54]** the same things are happening,

**[41:55]** and building an aerobic engine is important.

**[41:57]** But if you don't want to be the kind of person

**[41:59]** who's cramping up or annihilated by quarterfinals,

**[42:03]** you need to get the volume of reps that is necessary.

**[42:06]** Because you're gonna get a lot more reps

**[42:09]** than you think in these workouts compared to training.

**[42:11]** Like, you can really push these things.

**[42:14]** So we need to have enough volume within a given workout,

**[42:18]** or a given week or a month or a phase

**[42:20]** that can actually get you better at those things.

**[42:22]** And the same sort of thing applies when I'm looking at,

**[42:26]** like, you don't need to be...

**[42:29]** You need to be really fit to crush a couplet.

**[42:32]** Like, you gotta have the athlete IQ, of course,

**[42:34]** but, like, a couplet is no man's land

**[42:37]** for, like, someone who's skilled and has athlete IQ

**[42:42]** but just doesn't stack up in the engine department.

**[42:45]** In a lot of instances, that is a situation

**[42:47]** situation where an athlete is going to struggle a little bit. Whereas a triplet, we've got

**[42:52]** more transitions, more time to be smart, more breaks from said movement that might get you

**[42:58]** in trouble, that sort of thing. So we're thinking about once again, how would I get someone

**[43:03]** better at things like this? And my mind goes to monostructural conditioning on one side

**[43:09]** and maybe interval work on the other side, where again, we're really able to push there.

**[43:13]** But then we flip over to how to learning how to execute and it's like you have to do these

**[43:18]** things.

**[43:19]** Like you have to do the open sim, you have to do enough medium workouts and you know

**[43:25]** enough triplets to understand where you're at.

**[43:28]** You have to do enough interval versions to find the line and step over it every once

**[43:32]** in a while or not go hard enough and know that that's you know not going to cut it sort

**[43:37]** of a thing.

**[43:38]** So knowing that we have training and practicing,

**[43:42]** I think is a good head space to have,

**[43:44]** because then you can put these concepts together.

**[43:47]** Like the person that's coming to mind right now

**[43:49]** is Kyle Moline, who is strategizing

**[43:53]** and pushing pretty damn hard in the medicine workouts, right?

**[43:56]** And that's a skill, like that's tough.

**[43:59]** You have to practice, you have to know kind of when and where,

**[44:03]** but you also have to put in a lot of work.

**[44:06]** So my brain goes to the idea of the training versus practicing and knowing, you know, when

**[44:10]** you got to do those things, what you're good at and what you're not good at, which would

**[44:13]** skew maybe how often you do one or the other, that sort of thing.

**[44:16]** Right.

**[44:17]** Yeah, I think I'll think about like a workout that I had yesterday in training, 14 minute

**[44:22]** AMRAP with the wall walks, the deadlift, echo bike, and like, again, a bit of practicing

**[44:28]** of like, what happens if I go harder on the bike than I actually want to like, you know,

**[44:32]** forced me to get out of my comfort zone there. And like, you know, you kind of, you have to like,

**[44:37]** give and take a little bit when it comes to kind of practicing strategies as well of like, you know,

**[44:43]** what does work, what doesn't work. And, you know, if you are someone that doesn't like machines, well,

**[44:49]** you're probably gonna have to push on the machines more than you want in a lot of your workouts,

**[44:53]** if you want to get better at that. So... And the pushing is very mental too, right? Yeah.

**[44:58]** Because I try to make sure, depending on who the athlete is, that if I give an instruction

**[45:03]** like that, it's very clear that we're literally looking for one to two RPMs over what you

**[45:11]** think is right in the moment, which is 10, 20, 30 watts, something like that.

**[45:17]** And it's subtle, but what it takes to stay there mentally is where the intensity is really

**[45:25]** brought to the equation.

**[45:26]** I think instructions that aren't detailed

**[45:30]** or in the wrong hands will go the wrong way.

**[45:32]** It's like, I'm gonna send the bike.

**[45:35]** It's like, well, literally the workout's gonna be over

**[45:37]** in like 55 seconds.

**[45:39]** You're gonna be screwed.

**[45:40]** So I really like that sort of stuff.

**[45:43]** Like just, like don't, like the opposite would be like,

**[45:46]** don't take that break and give yourself the three, two, one

**[45:48]** on the last wall walk or two.

**[45:50]** Like just do it anyways.

**[45:52]** And then hello, thruster, like what happens now?

**[45:55]** because if you make it subtle and you make it about the mind

**[45:58]** a little bit more than anything else,

**[46:00]** you might find out that you now actually know

**[46:04]** what your pace is supposed to be,

**[46:05]** like that kind of thing.

**[46:06]** Exactly, yep.

**[46:07]** That sort of deal, yeah.

**[46:08]** So we talked a little bit earlier,

**[46:10]** we hinted at this idea of objectivity versus subjectivity,

**[46:14]** and this plays a huge role in the entire conversation

**[46:18]** that we're having today.

**[46:19]** And one of the examples to kind of build a bridge

**[46:22]** to this idea in relation to this episode is we talk about the athlete that thinks that

**[46:28]** they're going hard because it hurts, like not going that hard, like going sort of hard

**[46:33]** in a CrossFit workout hurts really bad. And one piece of media that I saw not too long

**[46:38]** ago that I thought was really helpful for this, Hiller did a video with Jason Hopper

**[46:42]** and he was doing a burpee box jump over workout and there was no music on. My God, listen

**[46:49]** to that man breathe. Now he's fitter, gentlemen, than all of you. All of you. And you aren't

**[46:56]** breathing that heavy in your burpee box jump overs, right? Like, well, you have the right

**[47:00]** of passage where you get to tell your friend who's starting CrossFit, like this literally

**[47:04]** never gets easier, right? You get better, it does not get easier. And I love little

**[47:09]** small things like that that we can pull from. It's like that's what it looks like to be

**[47:14]** alone in your garage just kind of getting after it, right? Because he's still holding

**[47:19]** a good pace. He still has good form. He's just putting in that work, that grunt work,

**[47:25]** that dirty just kind of go for it. And we can think that we're going hard enough. We

**[47:31]** can think that we have our athlete IQ figured out. We can think that we care enough to put

**[47:37]** us into flow state or that we're in the right mindset there, but we have data. Like this

**[47:42]** sport is really cool in that way, or it's like, I'm much better at this level, I'm much better in

**[47:48]** training than I am in testing. There's all these different worlds and you will be fed that data.

**[47:53]** And no chance I'm going to call anybody out on this podcast, but I just know of people who are

**[48:00]** the shining examples of like, you're going to get your ass kicked on Wednesday in October.

**[48:06]** And then they get their ass kicked on Wednesday and February or Thursday or Friday

**[48:11]** in February or March.

**[48:13]** And that's when you have to know that about yourself.

**[48:16]** That's all I'm saying, not saying that, you know, the person who's great in practice

**[48:21]** isn't, you know, just as good as the other person.

**[48:23]** But like, you have to have objective data on all of the things that we're talking about

**[48:29]** to figure out how you could get better in the offseason and how you could execute

**[48:33]** when it's actually time to go.

**[48:34]** Yeah, there's a bit of like an emotional control that you have to have when it comes

**[48:39]** the objectivity of like, I have to have enough self-awareness to know that my emotions are

**[48:45]** playing into my effort right now versus like, you know, I've done a gear three training piece

**[48:50]** how many times and all of a sudden I can't hold this? Is it because of my effort or is it because

**[48:54]** of, you know, I'm distracted somewhere mentally and it's just taking me away from my workout?

**[48:59]** Yeah, yeah. And that's, I think that's a really good point to make is like,

**[49:04]** You get maybe a little bit esoteric here, too far down that rabbit hole.

**[49:08]** But having people in your corner that will tell you when you're not being objective

**[49:14]** is incredibly important. And you just have to be able to fall back on the idea that there are way

**[49:19]** more important things. And who I want to be as a person and the way that I carry myself,

**[49:24]** then I don't think you care about the open. If that is the death blow to your ego, then

**[49:31]** then you maybe have your priorities a little bit mixed up,

**[49:34]** but like having the people in your life

**[49:37]** that can tell you that is very important,

**[49:40]** especially if they mean well,

**[49:43]** and they're not projecting onto you or whatever.

**[49:45]** But making sure, I'll say it just one more time,

**[49:48]** that whatever opinion you have of yourself

**[49:51]** or your abilities, positive or negative,
