---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Misfit Mind: Finite & Infinite Games - E.2"
published: 2025-12-19
episode_number: "2"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "06:03"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Games", "Affiliate Programming", "Competition Mindset", "Weaknesses", "Nutrition"]
---

# Misfit Mind: Finite & Infinite Games - E.2 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Misfit Mind: Finite & Infinite Games - E.2]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits! Alright you redneck bunch of Misfits! You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said either.

**[00:19]** Good morning Misfits, you are tuning into episode two of our Experimental Short Form podcast where

**[00:25]** I do a deeper dive into the Misfit Mind post that we do weekly on Instagram. This episode of the

**[00:30]** podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind. I have an Echo Bike on the other side of my desk

**[00:35]** right there that is staring at me. I have a fourth gear Echo Bike sessions, six minute

**[00:40]** repeats coming up, which means I have a scoop of Gorilla Mode Bombsicle in here. I'll remind you

**[00:46]** guys that I want to say beg them, but strongly suggested that they sponsor the podcast because

**[00:52]** because I believe in their products so much

**[00:54]** and felt like they weren't really in our market.

**[00:56]** So if you're looking for a pre-workout

**[00:57]** that actually has amounts of ingredients

**[00:59]** that will move the needle,

**[01:01]** head to grillemin.com, use the code word misfit

**[01:03]** and let me know what you think of it.

**[01:05]** From the last Misfit Mind podcast,

**[01:08]** one of the pieces of feedback was to actually read the post

**[01:12]** instead of telling someone to pause and then go check it out.

**[01:15]** So let's read the post from this week

**[01:17]** and then dig into it.

**[01:19]** Most people don't fail from lack of effort.

**[01:21]** They fail because they need the work to end.

**[01:24]** A finite game is played for the purpose of winning.

**[01:26]** An infinite game for the purpose of continuing the play.

**[01:30]** Valuing outcome and status over growth, resilience, and meeting is a short path to a steep drop-off.

**[01:37]** Reframing the type of game you're playing allows you to remove the blinders and see

**[01:40]** the big picture.

**[01:42]** Over the course of your life, career, playing days, everything changes all of the time.

**[01:48]** That complexity requires adaptability.

**[01:50]** When the universe hits you with injuries, rule changes, exposed weaknesses, untimely

**[01:55]** no reps, do you want that to be the end or a new beginning?

**[01:58]** It's time to accept that you're another sicko like the rest of the people reading this post

**[02:03]** and are in this thing for the long haul.

**[02:05]** Realizing that you're playing an infinite game is the kind of ammunition that lets you

**[02:09]** stroll intently down the path of never ending work.

**[02:13]** See you there misfits.

**[02:15]** So this is inspired by this book right here, Finite and Infinite Games by James Kars.

**[02:21]** It's a quick read.

**[02:22]** It is a simple concept that is explained in a bunch of different ways.

**[02:27]** And maybe one of the easiest ways for me to explain it is to draw direct correlation to

**[02:33]** what you're watching or listening right now.

**[02:35]** Last week was the first episode that we did of this.

**[02:38]** Like I said, experimental, short form.

**[02:40]** I want to know what you guys think of it.

**[02:42]** We probably got 200-ish downloads on audio and maybe 80 to 100 downloads on video.

**[02:49]** And while my purpose as a business owner and what I'm doing here is very much an infinite

**[02:56]** game, the kind of game where the purpose of it is to continue playing, I want to continue

**[03:01]** to do my dream job.

**[03:03]** I want to continue to write programming, deliver content to you guys, educate and inspire,

**[03:08]** foster community, be part of the community.

**[03:11]** And yet the rules of the finite game enter the mindset all of the time, right?

**[03:16]** Like 80 views, 200 downloads, should I keep doing this?

**[03:20]** What is the point of doing this?

**[03:22]** I am applying this end game to something that I need to be thinking about from a more long-term

**[03:28]** perspective.

**[03:29]** And I was on a walk the other day and a podcast that I was listening to reference this book

**[03:35]** and it really made me rethink about the concept from the point of view of the athlete.

**[03:40]** And we go back to the beginning of the post here and I've worked with so many athletes

**[03:45]** again that are not failing or almost stopping and restarting all the time because they're

**[03:51]** not willing to try hard.

**[03:53]** It's because they think that there is an end in sight or that if the goal this year is

**[03:59]** to finish in this spot at this level of competition, then that's the end.

**[04:03]** And in reality, that's not what we are doing here.

**[04:06]** of our examples from the CrossFit Games, from our favorite sports, you know, even artists

**[04:12]** that have, you know, a movie that sells really well or a book or an album, they go make another

**[04:20]** one. They continue to play this infinite game and they don't have to deal with the fact

**[04:25]** of feeling like they're starting and stopping all of the time. And if we are going to continue

**[04:31]** playing this game, if we're going to play when we're young, we're going to play when

**[04:34]** we're old, we're going to play when we're stressed and sick and tired and all of these

**[04:40]** different seasons of life, then we need to be adaptable.

**[04:44]** We need to understand that the end game is essentially to keep playing.

**[04:50]** That's what we're trying to do in so many endeavors in our life.

**[04:54]** And once you accept that, that's when that path of this never ending, long term, you

**[05:00]** know, growth mindset actually kicks in.

**[05:03]** So my thought experiment for you guys this week is to think about the concept of finite and infinite games.

**[05:09]** If you were truly playing a finite game, then once you did the open quarterfinals,

**[05:16]** semi-finals, the CrossFit games this season and the outcome happened, it would be over.

**[05:21]** That would be the end. But if that's not the case, if you are giving in and understanding

**[05:27]** and accepting the fact that you're playing an infinite game, then you can start to think

**[05:31]** about things from that perspective where you can really grow and understand that the journey

**[05:37]** is the thing.

**[05:38]** And these little moments, these little finite games that we opt into in the moment are just

**[05:44]** part of the larger infinite game that we're doing.

**[05:46]** See you guys next week.

**[06:01]** Bunch of best bits of over a Sennheiser.
