---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Misfit Mind: Stop Starting Over - E.3"
published: 2025-12-26
episode_number: "3"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "06:10"
topics: ["Affiliate Programming", "Nutrition"]
---

# Misfit Mind: Stop Starting Over - E.3 - Chunk 1

Episode: [[../episode|Misfit Mind: Stop Starting Over - E.3]]

## Transcript

**[00:00]** We're on Misfits! Alright you bad pic, bunch of Misfits! You're a scrappy little Misfit, just like me.

**[00:13]** Biggest bunch of Misfits I've ever said aye's on.

**[00:17]** Good morning Misfits, you are tuning in to episode 3 of our Experimental Short Form Podcast,

**[00:22]** where I do a deeper dive into our weekly Misfit Mind posts from Instagram. If you guys like our

**[00:29]** content, YouTube, podcasts, social media, and you want to support it, there are four

**[00:34]** ways to do so.

**[00:35]** Number one, training camps.

**[00:37]** Come work out, come learn, and join your community of misfits or show up and treat it as an audition

**[00:44]** to see if we actually know what the F we are talking about.

**[00:48]** All of the stuff that I'm talking about is going to be available in the link in bio on

**[00:51]** our Instagram page.

**[00:53]** Also, our programming can be found at the link in bio as well.

**[00:56]** If you want to buy some Misfit gear, you can head to sharpentheaxco.com.

**[00:59]** As always, this episode of the podcast is brought to you by Gorilla Mind.

**[01:02]** These are the best supplements in the game.

**[01:05]** Use them every single day, which is why I asked them to sponsor this podcast.

**[01:09]** You use the code word Misfit, you save money, and we get paid as part of our sponsorship.

**[01:14]** So let's dive in.

**[01:16]** Misfit Mind post from Instagram this week.

**[01:19]** It doesn't have to be this hard.

**[01:22]** Quote, if you stand at a bus stop,

**[01:24]** eventually you'll catch a bus.

**[01:26]** But if you run from bus stop to bus stop,

**[01:28]** you may never catch a bus.

**[01:30]** That time of year is impending.

**[01:33]** The time of year that will have you questioning

**[01:35]** which new fad is worth replacing your current routine.

**[01:38]** The progress meter you've been filling up

**[01:40]** to reach 10,000 hours status hangs in the balance.

**[01:44]** On one side, you're tempted by the momentary relief

**[01:47]** that something new brings,

**[01:49]** maybe some exhilarating beginner gains await.

**[01:51]** On the other side, you see seemingly endless,

**[01:54]** single steps forward up that steep slope.

**[01:57]** Both are riddled with challenges,

**[01:59]** but the one that seems like the right path

**[02:00]** and the one that seems never ending

**[02:02]** are actually the opposite.

**[02:04]** You can choose to restart over and over again

**[02:07]** and your challenge will be disappointment on auto-renew.

**[02:10]** Or you can get in sync with the old left, left,

**[02:14]** left, right, left, up that mountain

**[02:16]** and accept that the challenge to keep going

**[02:18]** is the whole point.

**[02:19]** It's always gonna be hard.

**[02:21]** That's actually the point.

**[02:22]** It just doesn't have to be start, stop, start, stop,

**[02:25]** start, stop, hard.

**[02:26]** Want to enjoy the view?

**[02:27]** Stay on the path, log the hours.

**[02:30]** This week's Misfit Mind is inspired by the time of year

**[02:34]** and it is inspired by a quote from Howard Marks.

**[02:37]** If you stand at a bus stop, eventually you'll catch a bus.

**[02:40]** But if you run from bus stop to bus stop,

**[02:42]** you may never catch a bus.

**[02:44]** I'm a massive fan of the account Visualize Value.

**[02:48]** It's a graphic designer named Jack Butcher who takes simple yet profound quotes and tries

**[02:56]** to turn them into, again, simple yet profound visual representations of those things.

**[03:02]** And I think this one hits home for me so much because this has been one of the deeper lessons

**[03:07]** that I have to relearn over and over and over on repeat throughout my life.

**[03:11]** And it does apply to everything, right?

**[03:12]** Howard Marks is an investor and he's talking more about the get rich quick schemes where

**[03:19]** the person's jumping from thing to thing to thing as opposed to, say, dollar cost averaging

**[03:24]** and putting your money into something sort of long term and letting that compound and

**[03:29]** build.

**[03:30]** This applies so directly to training, but also to life.

**[03:34]** For thinking about training and we're thinking about what it takes to make our way through

**[03:38]** a progression that gets you stronger, that gets you fitter, that gets you more skilled,

**[03:44]** it takes time and it takes linear progression and it takes that marching up the mountain.

**[03:50]** And we don't really know, we don't really always know where that progress meter is at.

**[03:54]** We don't know when the 10,000 hours are reached.

**[03:57]** And often we just kind of reset and recreate that new thing.

**[04:00]** And that's the challenge.

**[04:02]** But the opposite of this is the quick dopamine chase that we hear so much about nowadays

**[04:08]** that isn't just related to social media, it's always been around. What if I change my supplements?

**[04:14]** What if I change my diet? What if I change my training program routine schedule? That's

**[04:20]** probably what's a little off about what I'm doing, not the fact that I can't just settle

**[04:25]** into working. And if you've been following us for a while, you know that we're preaching

**[04:30]** that rain or shine mentality this season. And it's because the people on our program

**[04:36]** who thrive, who are these examples of just getting to work and staying at work and then

**[04:44]** they succeed or they have sort of the prize that you want or they arrive at the destination

**[04:49]** that you think that you want.

**[04:51]** There's a way to get there, but it's a little bit simpler than you may think.

**[04:54]** So in life, we are going to be presented with these flashy new shiny objects over and over

**[05:01]** and over.

**[05:02]** And again, it is fun.

**[05:04]** It is fun to go change and go do the new thing and then it's not.

**[05:09]** And we just, I mean, rinse and repeat just over and over and over.

**[05:13]** These things happen and they perpetuate themselves.

**[05:17]** They create that situation.

**[05:18]** And there are these moments in life and we all finally find our place in some aspect

**[05:24]** of life and we have to build a bridge from that to learn into the thing that we're struggling

**[05:28]** with.

**[05:30]** So where have you stayed the course?

**[05:31]** What relationship have you stuck with?

**[05:32]** thing have you worked hard on and pushed through? That is your bridge. That is your proof. That is

**[05:38]** your recipe to bridge over to whatever it is you're struggling with and whatever it is you think

**[05:44]** you need to change. If you want to enjoy the view, you got to keep climbing up the mountain.

**[05:50]** You got to log the hours. You got to stay on your path. See you guys next week.

**[06:02]** You're a scrappy little misfit, just like me.

**[06:07]** Biggest bunch of misfits I ever said I was a...
