---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393"
published: 2026-03-24
episode_number: "393"
chunk_index: 1
chunk_start: "00:00"
chunk_end: "09:59"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393 - Chunk 1

Episode: [Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393](../episode.md)

## Transcript

**[00:00]** Good morning, Misfits. You are tuning into another episode of the Misfit Podcast on today's show. Paige

**[00:22]** and I will be doing an open review and a quarter finals preview.

**[00:28]** I will say right off the top here that we are not going to go in depth on the podcast

**[00:34]** about quarter finals.

**[00:35]** We're going to talk to you guys about what we thought when we first saw the workouts,

**[00:40]** some general thoughts.

**[00:41]** We're not going to like hide our opinions on them.

**[00:43]** But then tomorrow, Wednesday, 9am Eastern time, we're going to do a group call where

**[00:50]** we're going to go over everything.

**[00:51]** We're going to talk about order.

**[00:52]** to talk about the different avatars that would present, you know, strategies, one, two, three,

**[00:57]** four, five, all that different stuff, warmups, cooldowns, what you should do on certain days,

**[01:02]** et cetera, on that. And it's not really about gatekeeping. It's not really about whether

**[01:07]** you give us money or not. It's really just this is a narrowed window of athletes. And

**[01:14]** I want to deliver the information to Misfits directly and I want them to be able to ask

**[01:17]** questions. So we're going to put more eggs into that basket. So if you want the email

**[01:22]** with the link to get into that, you're going to sign up for one of our programs, or you

**[01:26]** can get into our telegram and the link will be in there as well. So you got to do a little

**[01:29]** bit of legwork on your own, but it's a free trial on the program side and telegram is

**[01:34]** free. So if you're willing to put in a little bit of work to be able to join the call and

**[01:38]** ask the questions and listen to us talk, then you can come in. So somewhere between, like

**[01:43]** everyone gets to listen and full on gatekeeping of like you have to pay us.

**[01:47]** So I just wanted to put that out there to start a little bit of housekeeping and

**[01:51]** then we'll jump right into it.

**[01:52]** If you are, you know, true rain or shine crew, if you're a true podcast listener,

**[01:57]** the end of the episode, we will have a new segment called coaches or people to

**[02:02]** where we'll just, you know, yap a little bit about whatever the heck we want.

**[02:06]** And maybe we'll keep that at the end of the podcast moving forward, or maybe we

**[02:09]** put it at the beginning and you don't need to listen or you can click the

**[02:12]** chapters thing or if I forget to put the chapters in, then you can figure it out.

**[02:17]** So okay, next steps programming wise, we've been getting a few questions about this and

**[02:22]** we made a little bit of an update to some of the answers that we gave in Telegram and

**[02:27]** I will put this in Telegram as well.

**[02:29]** But first and foremost, if you are a semi finals athlete in any division, individual

**[02:34]** age group team potentially, that would be a whole different can of worms, but we're

**[02:39]** always here to help everybody.

**[02:41]** So if you're going in person, you know, at a competition, if you're doing it online,

**[02:46]** contact us after quarterfinals and we will help you plan your semifinals prep dates.

**[02:52]** And then we'll probably just do some separate channels on telegram so that you guys can

**[02:57]** act or ask to ask.

**[03:00]** I can do it.

**[03:01]** Ask direct questions.

**[03:03]** Ask diress.

**[03:04]** Got it.

**[03:05]** My goodness.

**[03:06]** Try to say it twice fast.

**[03:07]** Ask direct questions.

**[03:08]** Ask direct questions.

**[03:09]** Yeah, that's hard.

**[03:10]** That was too easy.

**[03:11]** No, that's actually kind of,

**[03:12]** this hesitation. Nah, you made that look

**[03:12]** a little too easy.

**[03:14]** So you can ask us questions directly.

**[03:17]** So contact us for that.

**[03:19]** Post quarterfinals, the week of,

**[03:21]** so next week, next Monday,

**[03:22]** the week of March 30th is cherry picking week.

**[03:26]** We have a program in there,

**[03:28]** and then I am also going to share

**[03:31]** the Misfit benchmarks PDF.

**[03:33]** If you wanna check in on one of the benchmarks,

**[03:35]** you wanna do it for the first time, great.

**[03:36]** I will share a preview of the Misfit affiliate programming,

**[03:40]** and then everyone who has access to Hatchet and Masters

**[03:44]** also has access to GPP.

**[03:46]** So you have all of that stuff to choose from.

**[03:48]** Go take an affiliate class, go for a jog,

**[03:51]** get on your bike, get outside,

**[03:53]** do single sessions, double sessions, triple sessions.

**[03:55]** The idea is to do basically whatever the hell you want

**[03:59]** so that there's a little bit less stress involved with that.

**[04:02]** The week after that of Monday, April 6th

**[04:05]** is something that I've used quite a bit

**[04:07]** in the remote coaching world

**[04:09]** and something that I think could be helpful

**[04:10]** in our transition from like big adrenaline dump

**[04:14]** from opening quarterfinals

**[04:15]** to starting off season programming

**[04:17]** is essentially a preview week of off season one.

**[04:21]** So you guys will get basically one lift,

**[04:24]** one accessory, one conditioning, one skill,

**[04:27]** and it's gonna explain to you within it

**[04:29]** how it's going to be programmed in the next week

**[04:32]** and you can take out some of the guesswork

**[04:34]** that oftentimes is in a test week

**[04:36]** or a week one of a program.

**[04:38]** So make sure if you plan on following off season one

**[04:42]** that you get started or you subscribe the week of four, six

**[04:45]** and then the week of four, 13 off season one will start.

**[04:49]** You will have the strength bias

**[04:51]** or conditioning bias path that you can be on.

**[04:53]** And then something that I've done for remote athletes

**[04:56]** and honestly, a lot of athletes who just reach out

**[04:58]** is a hybrid version.

**[05:00]** So we're gonna do a little workshop video

**[05:02]** where I give you guys the template

**[05:04]** and show you what things go on what days,

**[05:07]** and you can come up with your version of what that is.

**[05:10]** And that's sort of bridging the gap between remote coaching.

**[05:13]** Like I rarely have a remote coaching athlete

**[05:17]** where it's five days a week of conditioning bias

**[05:19]** or five days a week of strength bias.

**[05:21]** Yeah.

**[05:22]** And part of that could be due to schedule,

**[05:24]** could be because they're more open athlete,

**[05:26]** you know, volume wise,

**[05:28]** but a lot of times it's because

**[05:29]** it's not really one size fits all.

**[05:31]** Like, yeah, I need to have the strength bias,

**[05:35]** but I'm good at pressing or I'm good at squatting

**[05:37]** or I'm good at deadlifting, that sort of thing.

**[05:38]** So that will all be on there.

**[05:40]** Last but not least, this episode of the podcast

**[05:43]** as well as the rest of them are brought to you

**[05:45]** by Gorilla Mind.

**[05:46]** You can head to gorillamind.com forward slash misfit

**[05:48]** or use the code word misfit at checkout.

**[05:50]** You save on your order and you support our show.

**[05:53]** We've had really good support thus far

**[05:55]** and I've got a lot of DMs about how much people

**[05:57]** are liking the products.

**[05:58]** So just a kind of a hat tip to you guys.

**[06:00]** I appreciate you guys supporting the podcast.

**[06:03]** I just ordered, so I got two things.

**[06:08]** I just ordered Gorilla Dream for the first time

**[06:11]** to test out their sleep supplement.

**[06:12]** And-

**[06:13]** What's in it?

**[06:14]** I wanted to talk about this

**[06:16]** because I'm super sensitive to these things

**[06:18]** and dosage is super important.

**[06:22]** Personally, the way that, and it's not like,

**[06:25]** me being a 200 pound male, well, I wish,

**[06:29]** 190 pound male these days.

**[06:31]** Like a lot of times I need a little bit more of something,

**[06:35]** but when it comes to this, it's definitely not the case.

**[06:38]** If I take the recommended dose of most sleep supplements,

**[06:42]** I have the craziest dreams.

**[06:44]** And like my sleep metrics are sort of all messed up.

**[06:47]** So I'm definitely gonna start with,

**[06:49]** they have dosing instructions of like,

**[06:52]** basically if you're small or sensitive,

**[06:55]** I'm one of those things.

**[06:56]** then start with, you know, whatever, a smaller dose.

**[07:01]** But the reason I added it to my cart

**[07:03]** is because they had a deal where if you spend $100,

**[07:07]** they got you.

**[07:08]** You get glycerol.

**[07:10]** Okay.

**[07:11]** I've been fascinated by this for a while

**[07:13]** and I've never tried it.

**[07:14]** It's basically for liquid retention.

**[07:18]** I have it.

**[07:18]** And do you?

**[07:20]** I never used it though.

**[07:21]** I don't really know how.

**[07:22]** So the idea would be pre-endurance event.

**[07:26]** Like I know whenever I've been on an endurance kick,

**[07:29]** my body can't handle the level of hydration.

**[07:32]** Like the amount of times that I have pissed

**[07:34]** on like the side of the road or in the woods,

**[07:37]** getting off my bike or like on a run is more than 20.

**[07:42]** So it's hard for me to hydrate in that way.

**[07:45]** Like my body's not trained for it.

**[07:47]** And then like six weeks away from being a 40 year old

**[07:51]** and sometimes I got a tinkle in the middle of the night.

**[07:53]** So that would be another use case for it,

**[07:57]** where you have better water retention.

**[07:59]** So basically, I know that fighters use it,

**[08:03]** endurance athletes use it, and apparently old men use it.

**[08:07]** I don't know how many old men are going on girl.com.

**[08:10]** But anyways, I added the sleep supplement so that,

**[08:15]** because glycerol is like 40 or 50 bucks.

**[08:17]** So I was like, all right, I'm in.

**[08:19]** I'll just add this to try it, that sort of thing.

**[08:22]** I know that I can always pawn the if the sleep stuff doesn't work well for me

**[08:25]** I'm a pretty good sleeper. I can pawn it off on my wife pretty quickly

**[08:28]** So I am very interested to try both of those things and I will

**[08:33]** Deal. Yeah, I have it. I bought it cuz it was like a bundle

**[08:36]** They got me too and then but I haven't used it it kind of scares me because it's liquid and I'm like

**[08:42]** I don't know what it's gonna taste like I haven't even open sure. Yeah, I was gonna say if at first

**[08:47]** I don't know if it's flavored what the deal is right exactly

**[08:50]** I do a lot of like I've gotten to the point where I like have to be very no fuss about my

**[08:56]** Supplement taking like this morning. I don't put creatine in my smoothie in the morning because my son

**[09:02]** tries to steal a lot of it

**[09:05]** Like this morning. He was yelling at me that he even though he had his mini one

**[09:08]** He wanted my big one course as I'm leaving. He's literally pounding on the door the window

**[09:15]** I want the big smoothie. I'm like it's my breakfast, dude, and he's like oh

**[09:20]** I don't care.

**[09:21]** You think that matters to me, dude?

**[09:22]** I don't care.

**[09:23]** Give me the big smoothie.

**[09:25]** So I just like four tablespoons of water,

**[09:30]** seven grams of creatine, just swish it up down the hole.

**[09:34]** It doesn't really taste like anything.

**[09:35]** It's a little mealy, but like-

**[09:36]** I'm gonna say the texture.

**[09:37]** It doesn't taste like anything.

**[09:38]** So I will probably put a cap full of glycerol into a cup,

**[09:44]** a tiny bit of water down the hatch.

**[09:45]** Shoot it down, it's fair.

**[09:46]** Yeah.

**[09:47]** Still nasty.

**[09:48]** I don't have the space in my days anymore

**[09:50]** to get cute with stuff like that.

**[09:51]** Yeah, that's fair.

**[09:52]** Because otherwise I just don't take it.

**[09:53]** Yeah, that's fair.

**[09:54]** I have to keep it in a very convenient spot too.

**[09:58]** Yeah, for sure.
