---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393"
published: 2026-03-24
episode_number: "393"
chunk_index: 2
chunk_start: "09:59"
chunk_end: "19:55"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393 - Chunk 2

Episode: [[../episode|Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393]]

## Transcript

**[09:59]** Like if it's, like again, it's up there on my shelf,

**[10:03]** so that also doesn't help my case of taking it.

**[10:06]** Yeah, yeah.

**[10:08]** All right, let's do some leaderboards.

**[10:12]** So we have 26.3 leaderboard and prize.

**[10:15]** I think almost everyone has reached out to me.

**[10:20]** I think there might be one straggler.

**[10:21]** If you want a prize, please reach out to me.

**[10:24]** But I think almost everyone has now.

**[10:25]** So we'll give away a prize for that.

**[10:27]** And then we're gonna double the prize for the overall.

**[10:32]** So we're gonna do 26.3 women, 26.3 men,

**[10:35]** overall women, overall men, and we'll go through the prizes.

**[10:38]** So let's pull this bad boy up here.

**[10:41]** 26.3 women, Kenzie Riley, Elena Pomerisi, Lindsay Hoffman, Adrian Winjes, Kelly Clark,

**[10:50]** Paige Simenza, Ashley Drabicki, Kaylin Mitchell, Peyton Forsythe, and Missy G. Those are your

**[10:58]** top 10. And the drawing is from... So shout out to all of them for crushing 26.3, but

**[11:05]** the drawing is from everybody that's on the list. So Paige, you got your random number

**[11:10]** generator going. Yep. Out of the 19, we got eight. Kaylin Mitchell. Congratulations. Reach

**[11:18]** out to me. I am at Misfit Coach on Instagram and Telegram. Coachatmisfitathletics.com is

**[11:24]** my email. All right. 26.3 gentlemen. Kyle Moline, Adam Salmani, Anthony Greco. I like

**[11:33]** like St. Anthony, Anthony, Tyler Kluver, Shane Lloyd.

**[11:36]** Okay, here we go.

**[11:37]** DJ Smachinsky.

**[11:41]** Smachinsky.

**[11:42]** Yeah, no, I gotta, I gotta, he basically told me,

**[11:46]** shout out, he did get a 1.5 times gift card

**[11:50]** for telling me how to pronounce his name.

**[11:53]** He said a lot of his family tells people

**[11:55]** the Z is silent, but it's actually not.

**[11:57]** So I could say Smachinsky, but it's Smachinsky, I think.

**[12:01]** I even looked it up.

**[12:02]** DJ, DJ, tell me how I did.

**[12:04]** That was sixth place, seven through 10.

**[12:07]** Wyatt Mel, John Dohmic, Nicholas Cole Butler, and Hunter Stewart.

**[12:13]** Well done on 26.3.

**[12:16]** Gents, Paige, what do we got for a winner?

**[12:19]** 18.

**[12:20]** 18 is Nicholas Becker.

**[12:23]** Nicholas Becker, reach out to me.

**[12:26]** Atmosphere Coach everywhere, except for like, I don't know, TikTok or Friendster.

**[12:31]** which at missfordathletics.com.

**[12:33]** All right, now we're gonna do the overall.

**[12:35]** One thing that was interesting and really lends

**[12:38]** to our GPP reign supreme is the scores don't really,

**[12:43]** I had to do a lot of manual scores.

**[12:45]** That was a pain in the ass, I will not do that next year,

**[12:47]** but we'll put the information out sooner.

**[12:50]** It's pretty similar, like when you put someone in,

**[12:53]** cause I had to put them in overall and the workout,

**[12:55]** they're almost always in the same spot.

**[12:58]** And that was the case across the workouts,

**[12:59]** which is kind of cool.

**[13:01]** So overall ladies, top 10,

**[13:04]** Kenzie Riley, Elena Pomerisi, Lindsay Hoffman,

**[13:06]** Paige Simenza, Kelly Clark, Adrian Winjes, Emma Hagstrom,

**[13:10]** Peyton Forsythe, Kaitlyn Mitchell, and Ashley Drabicki.

**[13:13]** Shout out in 11th place while doing

**[13:17]** Masters Semi-finals prep, Missy G.

**[13:19]** All right, Paige, this is the double gift card.

**[13:24]** Out of 19, who is in 12th?

**[13:27]** Caitlin Nolan, there you go Caitlin.

**[13:30]** Well done, well done.

**[13:33]** Reach out to me, I know you will.

**[13:35]** Also, you said you could only do strict handstand pushups

**[13:37]** in the winter and I really wanted Barrow

**[13:40]** to kind of jump in and say something.

**[13:42]** I thought he would take care of that.

**[13:43]** I gotta know what that means.

**[13:45]** Yeah, what does that mean?

**[13:46]** There was one comment a while back

**[13:48]** where he said this is the most Caitlin post ever.

**[13:51]** I think I can only do handstand pushups in the winter

**[13:54]** might now be first place.

**[13:57]** And I'm pretty sure she said that. She said I can also only do them in the winter. I was like that's amazing.

**[14:02]** Wow. What does that mean?

**[14:04]** I mean, I'm cold in the winter. Those shoulders are not warming up.

**[14:08]** Yeah. Crazy.

**[14:09]** I have said this on the podcast quite a few times. The first time I ever did 20 unbroken, I was nude in a hotel room.

**[14:16]** I just want to throw that out there.

**[14:17]** Post shower or pre-shower?

**[14:19]** What?

**[14:19]** Post shower.

**[14:20]** Oh, pre-shower. Yes, pre-shower. Yeah. Yeah, I can't. No.

**[14:24]** I'll be too sweaty the rest of the day.

**[14:26]** Something about those walls barefoot just cruising.

**[14:30]** All right, overall gentlemen, Adam Salmani with the victory.

**[14:39]** Congratulations.

**[14:40]** Adam Salmani, Kyle Moline, Tyler Kluver, Shane Lloyd, Antonio Greco, Wyatt Mel, Christian

**[14:48]** Bergseth, DJ, this is Machinsky, it's getting easier.

**[14:53]** John Dohmic, Hunter Stewart.

**[14:57]** Well done, gents, top 10 overall misfits.

**[15:01]** In the open, who wins the double prize?

**[15:04]** We're going way to the back.

**[15:06]** Twenty-f-

**[15:07]** All right.

**[15:08]** Yes?

**[15:10]** I'm gonna, I'm gonna kibosh that.

**[15:12]** This person didn't do 26.2,

**[15:14]** so we got a few people on here.

**[15:16]** Bye-bye.

**[15:17]** All right, we're going-

**[15:18]** If you know who you are and you feel slighted,

**[15:20]** reach out to me and we'll make it right.

**[15:22]** If you don't know who you are

**[15:23]** you're not listening, it is what it is,

**[15:24]** but you gotta do all the workouts to get the full price.

**[15:26]** All right, we'll take it back to the front of the pack.

**[15:28]** Six.

**[15:29]** Wyatt, now.

**[15:30]** Oh, he's gonna be so excited.

**[15:34]** Listen, Paige is out here giving the prizes

**[15:36]** to her fucking remote client.

**[15:37]** Listen, I can show you this is random number generator.

**[15:40]** She also doesn't, she doesn't have the list that I have.

**[15:42]** I don't share that with her.

**[15:43]** I don't see it.

**[15:44]** So she couldn't have done that.

**[15:45]** But Wyatt, congratulations.

**[15:46]** He's gonna be so excited.

**[15:48]** You know where to find me.

**[15:49]** Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful.

**[15:51]** All right, so we're gonna start this.

**[15:53]** We're gonna do open recap first

**[15:54]** before we do the quarterfinals stuff.

**[15:57]** 0.1, 12 minutes of wall balls and box jumps,

**[16:00]** 26.2, eight to 15 minutes of lunging, snatching,

**[16:04]** bar pull, and some ring gymnastics, 26.3.

**[16:07]** 16 minutes of burpees, cleans, and thrusters.

**[16:11]** Now, we will give you our opinions,

**[16:14]** but I want to address how we deal with this information.

**[16:18]** This is data for us.

**[16:19]** This gives us more data to collect,

**[16:23]** not only in what the workouts are, but how you guys did,

**[16:27]** what the stimulus was, all of that.

**[16:29]** And that goes into how we think about open prep

**[16:32]** that goes into for remote coaches.

**[16:34]** And someone says, man,

**[16:35]** I just never get better at the open.

**[16:38]** If you wanna work on that, we'll work on it.

**[16:39]** So this is data for us.

**[16:42]** That is what we are going to talk about for the most part.

**[16:47]** Opinions, me, I've got whiteboards all back there

**[16:54]** and on none of them does it say medium duration,

**[16:56]** medium duration, medium duration, medium duration,

**[16:59]** squat, squat, squat, squat, right?

**[17:01]** So, they learned how to program at first

**[17:05]** from the CrossFit Journal.

**[17:08]** And the variance within that, with the lifting,

**[17:11]** with the short workouts, with the long workouts,

**[17:14]** I have no clue how they're thinking about this,

**[17:17]** if it's like affiliate perspective,

**[17:20]** is three medium the same as short, medium, and long

**[17:22]** in terms of the total volume that they're doing.

**[17:24]** I have no clue.

**[17:26]** And while I would like to see

**[17:31]** what I would consider better programming,

**[17:33]** I'm not taking the affiliates into consideration at all.

**[17:37]** Yeah.

**[17:38]** I'm really not.

**[17:39]** That's just not the way that I think about this.

**[17:41]** When you've like came up with a short, medium, long

**[17:44]** duration within Misfit, was that also based off of,

**[17:48]** like, obviously it's based off of like looking at

**[17:51]** so much programming, right, and like kind of finding patterns.

**[17:54]** I don't, I'm not gonna lie, I don't remember.

**[17:57]** So what Paige is referencing is,

**[17:58]** if we're in the programming meeting and you've got a short

**[18:01]** or you've got a medium and we get into that weird,

**[18:05]** you know, seven, eight, nine minute range,

**[18:07]** how are we classifying it?

**[18:09]** Are we saying it's a short workout?

**[18:10]** Does it fit into that or there?

**[18:12]** Are we saying it's a medium workout?

**[18:13]** And oftentimes the stimulus itself,

**[18:17]** the way that it's executed will dictate how we feel about it.

**[18:21]** If it is eight or nine minutes long and it's like, well,

**[18:24]** people are getting stuck and they're kind of standing around

**[18:26]** a little bit, then in terms of energy system pathways,

**[18:29]** we're probably dealing with something that feels

**[18:31]** a little bit more medium.

**[18:32]** Whereas a lot of 26.2 felt very short,

**[18:37]** kind of blasting through and then, oh, there's the rings,

**[18:40]** there's this part of the workout.

**[18:41]** I would have to go back and look,

**[18:42]** It's definitely based on a lot of the information that got me down the rabbit holes of energy

**[18:48]** systems, of the pathways within the body that are the fuel sources that are being used,

**[18:54]** et cetera, came from the CrossFit Journal, but then branched out into other places.

**[19:00]** So I would probably have to go back and read again to know exactly where the specific information

**[19:06]** came from.

**[19:08]** But one of the easiest ways to think about it is the real gross, your mile run, your

**[19:16]** 2K row, things of that nature.

**[19:18]** And what happens to pacing as we bleed beyond that, as we get into that weird gray area

**[19:25]** of timing that is medium workouts?

**[19:28]** So yeah, that's a good question.

**[19:30]** That's a good way to look at it.

**[19:31]** And I don't necessarily know the answer, but I do know what a short workout looks

**[19:38]** like, feels like, sounds like, and 26.2 doesn't really fit into that for 99% of the population.

**[19:45]** Yeah, right. Yeah. Okay.

**[19:46]** Because a lot of the people found out that if they had to back off a little bit, they

**[19:50]** had to back off a little bit to be able to go execute, which means to me that the pathway
