---
show: "Misfit Podcast"
episode_title: "Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393"
published: 2026-03-24
episode_number: "393"
chunk_index: 5
chunk_start: "39:54"
chunk_end: "49:53"
topics: ["Open", "Quarterfinals", "Semifinals", "Affiliate Programming", "Accessory Work", "Gymnastics", "Competition Mindset", "Nutrition"]
---

# Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393 - Chunk 5

Episode: [[../episode|Open Review / QF Preview: Misfit Leaderboards, Open Review, QF First Thoughts - E.393]]

## Transcript

**[39:54]** And then now you have narrowed it down to people who can go faster.

**[39:57]** Maybe it's because it's like if you made it, you need to.

**[40:01]** I'm not like going to save you.

**[40:03]** Maybe that's the devil's advocate there.

**[40:05]** That's a fair point.

**[40:07]** Either way. I mean, there's nothing to say about this other than the purple devil smiling emoji.

**[40:13]** Miling emoji.

**[40:14]** Yeah.

**[40:15]** This is like the fitter you are, the harder you go.

**[40:20]** Most athletes do this workout unbroken and fast.

**[40:23]** Mm-hmm.

**[40:24]** I mean, that's really just because for the best athletes, they don't like, 115 slash

**[40:30]** 80 is not going to change for them from the 95, 65.

**[40:33]** No.

**[40:34]** It's not going to be any difference for the high level athletes.

**[40:38]** And it's like maybe you drop the bar on the first set of 20 if you're lower down as a

**[40:45]** quarter finals athlete and then see if you can go unbroken in the back half.

**[40:50]** But this workout is just dirty and you're starting off with if you did this workout

**[40:55]** first this like, wait a minute, didn't I just do this?

**[41:01]** Didn't I just do burpees and see how well I can squat and stabilize overhead?

**[41:06]** Anyways.

**[41:07]** So yeah, this one's like, I'm not mad about the workout.

**[41:11]** Like it's cool to see them make,

**[41:14]** cause a lot of times the sprinty nasty workout

**[41:16]** has a weight component to it.

**[41:19]** Where like your true meat heads will get after it.

**[41:23]** Whereas this one, this is not a meat head special.

**[41:26]** That's pretty damn sure.

**[41:27]** Especially, yeah, I mean, if you are a meat head,

**[41:29]** like you basically have 60 burpee over the bar.

**[41:33]** Yeah.

**[41:35]** minutes going to go by fast. So it is very much fitness. It'll be and I mean, we've done

**[41:41]** a lot of intervals where it's like, you know, start out a little bit slower and interval

**[41:47]** one, try to get a little bit faster interval to like you guys have an idea of really how

**[41:53]** to approach that, you know, your different burpees burpee speeds, things like that. So

**[41:58]** you do have a lot of athlete IQ for this workout, I think.

**[42:02]** for sure. Workout number two, you could tell Boz wrote this bad boy right here for time

**[42:08]** completed and how he eight zero double dumbbell hang squat cleans with the 50s slash 30s and

**[42:17]** 40 bar muscle ups. Another whopping time cap of 15 minutes. What do we why are you gonna

**[42:28]** to make them look at the bar like that.

**[42:30]** Like that would be me.

**[42:31]** I'd be like, hey pull up bar, how you doing?

**[42:35]** Maybe we can sneak two more of these muscle ups.

**[42:37]** Like, ugh, gross.

**[42:40]** It is.

**[42:41]** Be penalized for qualifying.

**[42:42]** But this is also, it's also the one where like

**[42:45]** if you get the right strategy,

**[42:47]** like how much that will pay off dividends

**[42:49]** in that kind of workout.

**[42:51]** I like the partition as needed.

**[42:53]** Yeah, I mean, we are so obsessed with athlete IQ

**[42:58]** that it's fun to see them be like, do you have one?

**[43:03]** Yeah, yeah, exactly.

**[43:04]** That part of it to me is really cool.

**[43:06]** That was the first thing that I thought.

**[43:08]** And then what you don't wanna do,

**[43:11]** and I don't know how many of you listening to this

**[43:13]** out there, program workouts,

**[43:15]** but what you don't wanna do

**[43:17]** is think of like 90 different scenarios.

**[43:21]** You wanna think of like, I go to Paige and I say,

**[43:23]** all right, we're gonna do a short duration,

**[43:27]** Short to medium duration, double dumbbell hang squat clean

**[43:31]** workout with bar muscle ups.

**[43:33]** I'm thinking like 80 and 40 total volume.

**[43:36]** Try to make it as cardio-y as you can.

**[43:39]** Like that sort of thing.

**[43:40]** That's where my mind goes.

**[43:41]** Now, for different athletes,

**[43:44]** that execution will be different, right?

**[43:46]** Like, do you gotta jump all the way from like

**[43:48]** a set of eight to a set of five?

**[43:51]** Or could you go like five, five, four, four

**[43:54]** because you have a little bit, you're actually fit

**[43:56]** You got a little bit more muscle endurance, that sort of thing.

**[43:58]** So it would change from athlete to athlete, depending on energy systems,

**[44:02]** muscle fiber type, size, skill level, all of that.

**[44:05]** But like, what's, what are the workouts that feel the easiest while you're doing

**[44:11]** them? And I'm going to tell you right now, it's not ascending rep scheme, right?

**[44:15]** I heard of one or two of those.

**[44:17]** Yeah. I heard, I heard some athletes chirping about ascending rep schemes.

**[44:21]** And I'm just like, really?

**[44:24]** That sounds insane.

**[44:25]** You could, yeah, yeah.

**[44:27]** So ascending rep schemes are funny

**[44:29]** because you feel so good and then you feel terrible.

**[44:32]** It's like a death by, right?

**[44:33]** And I'll tell you right now,

**[44:35]** this workout is mostly dependent

**[44:38]** on your grip strength and endurance, but dude,

**[44:42]** everyone will talk about how gassy,

**[44:45]** how bad this workout is just from how do I feel hard in my,

**[44:49]** you know, just heart pounding in my chest sort of a thing.

**[44:52]** Cause those movements you're moving a long distance.

**[44:56]** And then the way that you're under load

**[44:58]** in the double dumbbell with not being able to

**[45:02]** sort of share the grip intensity

**[45:04]** with a connected barbell is gonna be interesting.

**[45:07]** So one thing that I will say today,

**[45:09]** practice that movement above anything else.

**[45:13]** I don't think you need to test any of these workouts.

**[45:16]** If you wanna take little snippets, that's totally fine.

**[45:19]** but like that movement, like can you hook grip a dumbbell?

**[45:23]** Can you really set that in so that you can do that?

**[45:25]** Do you know which side you want your hand on

**[45:30]** like up against one of the sides or the back

**[45:32]** because of the way that it's gonna swing in that movement?

**[45:35]** So like check the movement standards

**[45:37]** and then grab some dumbbells and get after it.

**[45:39]** And movement flaws will show up

**[45:41]** in a massive way at a heavier weight.

**[45:44]** So if you're a woman and 35 pounds is fine,

**[45:47]** grab 40s, grab 45s, grab 50s as you're working your way up.

**[45:51]** Yeah.

**[45:52]** And really think about the movement cost as you're doing it,

**[45:56]** because that is that annoying thing where you've

**[45:59]** got a two for one situation like, oh, yeah, I could do 7.6.5

**[46:03]** muscle ups.

**[46:05]** How are those going to feel with 14, 12, 10 of the dumbbell

**[46:10]** hang squad queens in between?

**[46:12]** And I will say, if you looked at the movement standards

**[46:15]** on the website, don't hold them the way

**[46:18]** Allison Scuds is holding them.

**[46:20]** I'll say that much.

**[46:21]** Okay, fair enough.

**[46:23]** What do you think about this workout?

**[46:26]** All grip.

**[46:26]** Like I definitely, definitely gassed

**[46:29]** like just the dynamic turnover of a bar muscle up.

**[46:32]** The fitter you are, the grippier it will feel.

**[46:34]** Yeah, exactly.

**[46:35]** Right?

**[46:36]** The more you can just handle what it is.

**[46:37]** Yeah.

**[46:38]** Cause like people get into, people get obsessed with that.

**[46:40]** And it's like, well, if you hit the time cap,

**[46:42]** your grip's probably not going to be that torched.

**[46:44]** Like it's going to be gassed.

**[46:46]** Yeah, exactly.

**[46:47]** But definitely like, and I really like a movement,

**[46:50]** like a dumbbell hang clean.

**[46:52]** Like I like those.

**[46:53]** I feel like I get really good hip drive,

**[46:55]** but again, that's where that gas stimulus

**[46:58]** of that fast turnover, like I want to be surprised by like,

**[47:02]** you know, that's a lot of bar muscle ups

**[47:03]** and grip fatigue for me.

**[47:05]** That's all I know.

**[47:05]** So it'll be interesting to see like how to approach it.

**[47:09]** Cause obviously I think everyone's going to be

**[47:11]** slightly different.

**[47:12]** Like what do you, like I'm already hearing like E-Mom

**[47:14]** this or email that. What are your thoughts there of thinking as an email right away?

**[47:18]** No. I don't. I just can't. I don't. I was talking to some athletes. And I'm like, I have to marinate on it.

**[47:22]** I can't put myself into the headspace of people who try to make a trick. The amount of people

**[47:27]** that have asked me, like, do you think I should like go like 30 on, 30 off in this? Like,

**[47:32]** you fucking insane? Like, just gas here? Not this, but like a workout. Yeah. And it's like,

**[47:39]** those kinds of things make no sense. Now, if you put way too much work out work into a short period

**[47:46]** of time and then rest, maybe you do end up within 10% of what your score would be. But like,

**[47:54]** it doesn't make any sense to stand around, rest, do smaller sets, do something that is more

**[48:00]** reasonable and stay moving. Yeah, right. Because someone will choose the opposite.

**[48:06]** and they will get a really long ways through this

**[48:09]** and then run into a wall.

**[48:11]** And we don't want either of those things to happen, right?

**[48:14]** We're not gonna do 40 rounds of one and two,

**[48:17]** that'd be wild, that's a lot of transitions,

**[48:19]** kind of just adding a little extra time there.

**[48:21]** And then we're probably not doing two rounds of 20 and 40.

**[48:24]** So like, where do we live in between?

**[48:27]** How do you handle that sort of stuff?

**[48:28]** But no, no gimmicks, no tricks, there's nothing there.

**[48:32]** There will be one athlete who does really well

**[48:35]** and their strategy will be weird,

**[48:37]** and then just go look at their name

**[48:38]** and their competition history

**[48:40]** and accept the fact that they're really fit.

**[48:42]** Because that happened with Velner

**[48:44]** when Velner crushed everybody in the partition as needed.

**[48:47]** He did bigger chunks of movements

**[48:50]** in the row while ball muscle up.

**[48:53]** And I could tell you right now

**[48:54]** that this workout is not like that.

**[48:56]** Yeah, like, you know, obviously the thought of an e-mom,

**[49:00]** I'm like, I have to marinate on this more.

**[49:02]** Like I could see why choosing an e-mom makes sense,

**[49:06]** but also, you know, like you said, the whole standard.

**[49:08]** Now what do you mean by an e-mom?

**[49:10]** You're keeping yourself to a clock of like,

**[49:12]** I want to be able to accomplish this much as an e-mom.

**[49:17]** Yeah, so like, for example, their initial thought was like,

**[49:20]** eight dumbbell hank's walk leans, four bar muscle ups,

**[49:23]** 10 rounds of that.

**[49:23]** 10 rounds of it?

**[49:24]** Or every minute on the minute?

**[49:27]** But done as every minute on the minute.

**[49:30]** So like you're getting

**[49:31]** But what if you need no rest at the beginning and more rest?

**[49:35]** Right.

**[49:35]** Yeah.

**[49:36]** Like, those ideas just don't make a ton of sense to me.

**[49:40]** Now, here's one element to this.

**[49:43]** And I really like it when I tune in

**[49:48]** to listen to another coach that I respect speak.
